| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Primary key operations

This topic describes simple primary key operations in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, including adding, modifying, and dropping primary keys.

## Add a primary key

The syntax for adding a primary key is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name ADD [CONSTRAINT constraint_name] PRIMARY KEY (column_name);
```

where

* `table_name` specifies the name of the table for which the primary key is to be added.

* `constraint_name` specifies the name of the constraint to be added.

* `column_name` specifies the column of the table.

For more information, see [ALTER TABLE](../900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/1000.alter-table-of-oracle-mode.md).

Assuming table `tbl1` already exists in the database and you want to define the `c1` column in table `tbl1` as the primary key. Here is an example:

```shell
obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl1 ADD PRIMARY KEY (c1);
```

## Modify a primary key

The syntax for modifying a primary key is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name MODIFY PRIMARY KEY (column_name);
```

Here, `table_name` specifies the name of the table where the primary key is to be modified, and `column_name` specifies the column where the primary key will be located after the modification. For more information, see [ALTER TABLE](../900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/1000.alter-table-of-oracle-mode.md).

Assuming table `tbl1` already exists in the database and has an existing primary key. The example below demonstrates how to modify the primary key of table `tbl1` to apply to the `c2` column:

```shell
obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl1 MODIFY PRIMARY KEY (c2);
```

## Drop a primary key

The syntax for dropping a primary key is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name DROP PRIMARY KEY;
```

Here, `table_name` specifies the name of the table from which the primary key is to be deleted. For more information, see [ALTER TABLE](../900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/1000.alter-table-of-oracle-mode.md).

Assuming table `tbl1` already exists in the database and has an existing primary key. The example below demonstrates how to drop the primary key from table `tbl1`:

```shell
obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl1 DROP PRIMARY KEY;
```

## References

[Query indexes](../../../../300.database-object-management/200.manage-object-of-oracle-mode/400.manage-indexes-of-oracle-mode/300.view-indexes-of-oracle-mode.md)