|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Minor compaction and major compaction

The storage engine of OceanBase Database is built on the log-structured merge-tree (LSM-tree) architecture. In this architecture, data is stored in MemTables and SSTables. When the size of a MemTable exceeds the specified threshold, data in the MemTable is flushed to an SSTable to release the memory space. This process is called a minor compaction. Each minor compaction generates a new SSTable. During off-peak hours of a day, or when the number of minor compactions exceeds the specified threshold, the baseline SSTables and incremental SSTables generated by minor compactions are merged into one SSTable. This process is called a major compaction.


The percentage of memory allowed for MemTables to the total available MemStore memory of a tenant is specified by the `memstore_limit_percentage` parameter. MemTables are classified into active MemTables and frozen MemTables. When the memory usage of MemTable reaches `memstore_limit_percentage` × `freeze_trigger_percentage`, a freeze is automatically triggered to generate a new active MemTable. The existing active MemTable becomes a frozen MemTable. Then, a minor compaction is automatically scheduled. When the minor compaction is completed, the memory occupied by the frozen MemTable is released.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>The <code>memstore_limit_percentage</code> parameter specifies the percentage of memory allowed for MemTables to the total available MemStore memory of a tenant. Default value: 50. Value range: [1, 99]. For more information about this parameter, see <a href="../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/13900.memstore_limit_percentage.md">memstore_limit_percentage</a>. </li>
    <li>The <code>freeze_trigger_percentage</code> parameter specifies the threshold of memory usage in percentage of tenants for triggering a global freeze. Default value: 20. Value range: (0, 100). For more information about this parameter, see <a href="../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/5400.freeze_trigger_percentage.md">freeze_trigger_percentage</a>. </li>
    </ul>
</main>

You can increase the frequency of minor compaction by using the following methods:

* Set the `freeze_trigger_percentage` parameter to a smaller value.

* Manually trigger a minor compaction by running the following command: `alter system minor freeze`.

A major compaction is automatically triggered when the number of minor compactions in a tenant reaches the threshold specified by using the `major_compact_trigger` parameter. The default value is 0 in OceanBase Database V4.0, which indicates that the automatic triggering of a major compaction based on the number of minor compactions is disabled.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The <code>major_compact_trigger</code> parameter specifies threshold of the number of minor compactions at which a global major compaction is triggered. The value range is [0, 65535]. For more information about this parameter, see <a href="../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/1800.major_compact_trigger.md">major_compact_trigger</a>. </p>
</main>

You can increase the frequency of major compaction by using the following methods:

* Set the `major_compact_trigger` parameter to a smaller value.

* Manually trigger a major compaction by running the following command: `alter system major freeze`.

## Data inconsistencies during a major compaction

The following data inconsistencies may occur during a major compaction:

* The number of rows in the primary table is inconsistent with that in the index table.

* The checksum values of some columns in the major SSTable are inconsistent.

* The checksum values of all rows in the major SSTable are inconsistent.

