# Authentication

The identity authentication feature validates the user identity when a user logs on to a database to access data, verifies whether the user can be associated with a database user, and implements security control on the activities of the user in the database based on the privileges of the associated database user. OceanBase Database supports identity authentication in both MySQL and Oracle modes.

## MySQL mode

### Identity authentication

In MySQL mode, a user is identified by its user_name and host. The following example shows how to create three users with the same username:

```sql
create user 'u1'@'%' identified by '***';
create user 'u1'@'1.1.1.1' identified by '***';
create user 'u1'@'2.2.2.2' identified by '***';
```

When a user logs on, the OBServer node controls the logon based on the user_name, client_ip, and password.

### Password complexity

To prevent malicious password attacks, OceanBase Database allows you to set a password complexity function as needed to verify the logon identity and improve database security.

In MySQL mode, you can specify password complexity rules by configuring a series of tenant-level system variables. When you create a user or when a user changes the logon password, the logon password is verified based on the configured system variables. If the password verification fails, an error is returned. The following table describes the relevant system variables.

| Variable | Feature | Description |
|--------------------------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| validate_password_check_user_name | Specifies whether the user password can be the same as the username. | When the value is set to `on`, the user password cannot be the same as the username.  |
| validate_password_length | Specifies the minimum length of the user password. | - |
| validate_password_mixed_case_count | Specifies the minimum number of uppercase and lowercase letters that a user password must contain. | - |
| validate_password_number_count | Specifies the minimum number of digits that a user password must contain. | - |
| validate_password_policy | Specifies the password checking strategy. Valid values: `Low` and `Medium`. | <ul><li>`Low`: Only the password length is checked. </li> <li>`Medium`: The password length, the number of uppercase letters, lowercase letters, digits, special characters, and the password resemblance to the username. </li></ul> |
| validate_password_special_char_count | Specifies the minimum number of special characters that a user password must contain. | - |

### Logon failure processing

In the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, for users who have multiple failed logon attempts, the system will lock the users to prevent malicious password attacks, thereby improving database security.

In MySQL mode, you can use the `connection_control_failed_connections_threshold` variable to specify the threshold of failed logon attempts. This is a tenant-level variable. The value is of an integer type and falls in the range of [0,2147483647]. The default value is `0`. If you set the variable to `0`, this feature is disabled and the number of failed logon attempts is not limited. When the number of failed logon attempts exceeds the specified threshold, the account is locked. You can use the following two parameters to specify the lock period:

* `connection_control_min_connection_delay`: specifies the lock period for the first failed logon attempt after the threshold is exceeded. The period of the second lock is `min( connection_control_min_connection_delay+1000, 1000* trunc ( connection_control_min_connection_delay/1000,0))`. After that, the lock period increases by an additional 1,000 milliseconds for each failed logon attempt.

* `connection_control_max_connection_delay`: specifies the maximum lock period for a failed logon attempt.

## Oracle mode

### Identity authentication

In Oracle mode, users in a tenant must have unique usernames. However, users in different tenants have the same usernames. Therefore, a user is globally identified by the combination of username and tenant name in the `username@tenant name` format.

### Password complexity

To prevent malicious password attacks, OceanBase Database allows you to set a password complexity function as needed to verify the logon identity and improve database security.

In Oracle mode, you can use the `PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION` parameter of the profile to verify whether the password complexity meets the requirements. To verify the password complexity, you must create a PL function that meets the following requirements:

```sql
FUNCTION verify_function (username     IN VARCHAR2,
              password     IN VARCHAR2,
              old_password IN VARCHAR2)
RETURN BOOLEAN;
```

When creating a user or modifying a password, the verification function will be called, and the new password will be judged whether it meets complexity requirements based on the execution result of the function.

### Logon failure processing

In the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, for users who have multiple failed logon attempts, the system will lock the users to prevent malicious password attacks, thereby improving database security.

In Oracle mode, you can use User Profile to lock users. User Profile allows you to lock a user after consecutive failed logon attempts by specifying the following two parameters:

* `failed_login_attempts`: the number of consecutive failed logon attempts.

* `password_lock_time`: the lock time, in days.
