# ORA-05000 to ORA-10000

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

## ORA-06500: PL/SQL: storage error

* OceanBase error code: 5842

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The PL program cannot allocate other storage. The program may be out of control.

* Solution:

   1. Make sure that the PL program does not use additional memory.

   2. Release unused objects through programming. For example, set them to `NULL`.

   3. Increase the size of the available shared or process memory space if applicable.

## ORA-06501: PL/SQL: program error

* OceanBase error code: 5840

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: An internal error occurred. An error was detected in the PL program.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ORA-06502: PL/SQL: numeric or value error: %.\*s

* OceanBase error code: 5677

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: An arithmetic, numeric, string, conversion, or constraint error occurred. For example, if you attempt to assign the `NULL` value to a variable that declares a `NOT NULL` constraint, or assign a value greater than `99` to a variable that declares `NUMBER(2)`, this error is reported.

* Solution: Modify the data, the data calculation method, or the data declaration method so that the value does not violate the constraint.

## ORA-06504: PL/SQL: Return types of Result Set variables or query do not match

* OceanBase error code: 5841

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The number or type of columns in the query does not match the return types declared by result set variables, or the types declared by two result set variables do not match.

* Solution: Modify the program statement or declaration. Identify the query referenced by variables during execution.

## ORA-06508: PL/SQL: could not find program unit being called: '%.\*s'

* OceanBase error code: 5933

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The program unit is not found.

## ORA-06513: PL/SQL: index for PL/SQL table out of range for host language array

* OceanBase error code: 9750
* SQLSTATE: HY000
* Cause: When you use a PL/SQL table, the index values exceed the value range of the array.
* Solution: Make sure that the values of the index do not exceed the value range of the array.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-06519: active autonomous transaction detected and rolled back

* OceanBase error code: 5796

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: All active autonomous transactions in an autonomous PL block must be completed (committed or rolled back) before they return from the block. If these transactions are not completed, the active autonomous transactions are implicitly rolled back, thereby inducing this error.

* Solution: Make sure that all active autonomous transactions are explicitly specified or rolled back before they return from the autonomous PL block.

## ORA-06530: Reference to uninitialized composite

* OceanBase error code: 5837

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: An object, large object, or another composite object (such as a nested table or a record) that is not initialized is referenced on the left side.

* Solution: Initialize the composite object by using a proper constructor or through global object assignment.

## ORA-06531: Reference to uninitialized collection

* OceanBase error code: 5838

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: A nested table, `VARRAY` element, or `Member` function is referenced, which requires an initialized collection, but the collection is not initialized.

* Solution: Initialize the collection by using an appropriate constructor or through global object assignment.

## ORA-06532: Subscript outside of limit

* OceanBase error code: 5843

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The subscript exceeds the upper limit for a `VARRAY` array, or the subscript is a non-positive value of a `VARRAY` array or nested table.

* Solution: Check the program logic and increase the upper limit for a `VARRAY` array if necessary.

## ORA-06533: Subscript beyond count

* OceanBase error code: 5828

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The subscript exceeds the maximum length of the `VARRAY` or is too large for the nested table.

* Solution: Check the logic of the program, and extend the logic explicitly if necessary.

## ORA-06535: statement string in EXECUTE IMMEDIATE is NULL or 0 length

* OceanBase error code: 9711

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The program was attempting to use a dynamic statement string that was either NULL or 0 in length.

* Solution: Check the program logic and make sure that the dynamic statement string is properly initialized.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-06546: DDL statement is executed in an illegal context

* OceanBase error code: 5981

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: A DDL statement is executed dynamically in an illegal PL/SQL context:

   * Dynamic OPEN cursor for a DDL statement in PL/SQL.

   * The Bind variable is used in the USING clause to immediately execute a DDL statement.

   * The Define variable is used in the INTO clause to immediately execute a DDL statement.

* Solution: Use `EXECUTE IMMEDIATE` without `USING` and `INTO` clauses to execute the DDL statement.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-06547: RETURNING clause must be used with INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statements

* OceanBase error code: 9713

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: EXECUTE IMMEDIATE with a RETURNING clause is used to execute only dynamic UPDATE, INSERT, or DELETE statements.

* Solution: Use the RETURNING clause in EXECUTE IMMEDIATE only for executing INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statements.  For other statements, use the USING clause instead.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-06548: no more rows needed

* OceanBase error code: 5839

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The caller of the pipelined function does not require the pipelined function to generate more rows.

* Solution: Do not handle the `NO_DATA_NEEDED` exception in an exception handling block.

## ORA-06553: wrong number or types of arguments in call to '%.\*s'

* OceanBase error code: 5343

* SQLSTATE: 42000

* Cause: SQL statement compilation failed due to the invalid reference of a PL unit.

* Solution: If the PLS error message does not provide a solution, try to execute the SQL statement as a top-level call.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The operator must have the required privilege. </p>
  </main>

## ORA-06562: type of out argument must match type of column or bind variable

* OceanBase error code: 9568

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The `LONG` type is specified for the `column_value_long` and `define_value_long` functions, which is not allowed.

* Solution: Specify supported argument types for the `column_value_long` and `define_value_long` functions.

## ORA-06563: name has too many parts

* OceanBase error code: 9714

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause:

   The name to be resolved was specified as one of the following forms:

   * A.B.C: The A.B part was resolved to a valid object that did not expose any visible nested procedures, and therefore the C part could not be resolved.

   * A.B: The A part was resolved to a valid object that did not expose any visible nested procedures, and therefore the B part could not be resolved.

* Solution: Specify the valid name of an object without specifying any additional trailing parts.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-06564: object %.*s does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 9749
* SQLSTATE: HY000
* Cause: The requested object does not exist.
* Solution: Make sure that the specified name of the requested object is correct.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-06575: Package or function PRO is in an invalid state

* OceanBase error code: 5465
* SQLSTATE: 42000
* Cause: The PL/SQL function referenced by the SQL statement is invalid.
* Solution: Check the SQL statement and PL/SQL functions for syntax errors and incorrectly authorized or missing privileges on the referenced object.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-06576: not a valid function or procedure name

* OceanBase error code: 5980

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: The function (if an `INTO` clause was present) or procedure (if the statement did not have an `INTO` clause) to be called is not found.

* Solution: Change the statement to call the function or procedure.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-07452: specified resource manager plan does not exist in the data dictionary

* OceanBase error code: 4718

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: You are attempting to load a nonexistent resource manager plan.

* Solution: Use a resource manager plan that exists in the data dictionary.

## ORA-08002: sequence is not yet defined in this session

* OceanBase error code: 9753
* SQLSTATE: HY000
* Cause: The NEXTVAL of the sequence object has not been accessed in the session.
* Solution: Access the NEXTVAL of the sequence object in the session before you access the CURRVAL of the sequence object.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.1. </p>
</main>

## ORA-08004: sequence exceeds %s and cannot be instantiated

* OceanBase error code: 4332

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: Instantiating `Nextval` would violate either `MAXVALUE` or `MINVALUE`.

* Solution: Change the sequence so that new values can be requested.

## ORA-08006: specified row no longer exists

* OceanBase error code: 38105

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: Other users have deleted this row since the operation begins.

* Solution: Retry this operation.

## ORA-08102: index key not found

* OceanBase error code: 4380

* SQLSTATE: HY000

* Cause: An internal error occurred. The indexes may be inconsistent.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ORA-08177: can't serialize access for this transaction

* OceanBase error code: 6235

* SQLSTATE: 25000

* Cause: Data modification is performed after a serializable transaction begins.

* Solution: Retry this operation in a read/write transaction.

## ORA-08186: invalid timestamp

* OceanBase error code: 4344

* SQL STATE: HY000

* Cause: The timestamp is invalid. If you are using a flashback query, this error may be caused because OceanBase Database has performed a minor compaction after the specified flashback point in time.

* Solution: Enter a valid timestamp.

## ORA-08187: snapshot expression not allowed here

* OceanBase error code: 32491

* SQL STATE: HY000

* Cause: The specified `AS OF` snapshot expression is not supported here.

* Solution: Do not use the `AS OF` clause.