|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

In the MySQL mode of OceanBase Database, users can use official MySQL connectors except for connectors for MySQL 8.0 to access OceanBase Database. In the Oracle mode, users must use the proprietary database drivers of OceanBase Database. The following sections describe the drivers provided by OceanBase Database.

## OBCI driver

The OceanBase Call Interface (OBCI) driver is a driver compatible with Oracle Call Interface (OCI) using the C language. Applications developed based on OCI can be driven by OBCI and support the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

For more information about OBCI, see [OBCI](../300.database-driver/200.OBCI.md).

## OceanBase Connector/J

Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) is a standard API for Java applications to access databases. A database driver adapts the JDBC API to SQL APIs of other database providers. As the JDBC driver of OceanBase Database, OceanBase Connector/J is compatible with JDBC 4.0, 4.1, and 4.2. By using OceanBase Connector/J, you can enable the MySQL and Oracle modes of OceanBase Database at the same time.

For more information about OceanBase Connector/J, see [OceanBase Connector/J](../300.database-driver/300.oceanbase-connector-j_concepts.md).

## OceanBase Connector/C

OceanBase Connector/C is an OBClient development component based on C/C++. OceanBase Connector/C supports C API libraries.

OceanBase Connector/C allows C/C++ applications to access distributed OceanBase clusters from the underlying layer. Then, the applications can perform operations such as database connection, data access, error processing, and prepared statement processing.

For more information about OceanBase Connector/C, see [OceanBase Connector/C](../300.database-driver/400.about-oceanbase-connector-c.md).
