# Modify configurations of a resource unit

You can modify the CPU, memory, and log disk configurations of a resource unit.

## Considerations

If you want to upgrade the configurations of a resource unit that is being used by a tenant, make sure that the OBServer node has sufficient resources for allocation. You can query the `oceanbase.GV$OB_SERVERS` view for the total resources and allocated resources of the node and determine whether the configurations of the resource unit can be modified based on calculation.

To upgrade the configurations of a resource unit, make sure that the total amounts of resources after the modification meet the following requirements:

```javascript
Sum(min_cpu) <= CPU_CAPACITY;
Sum(max_cpu) <= CPU_CAPACITY * resource_hard_limit;
Sum(memory_size) <= MEM_CAPACITY;
Sum(log_disk_size) <= LOG_DISK_CAPACITY;
```

Parameters:

* `CPU_CAPACITY`: the total CPU capacity.

* `MEM_CAPACITY`: the total memory capacity.

* `LOG_DISK_CAPACITY`: the total capacity of the log disk.

   The total capacity of the log disk is jointly controlled by the `log_disk_size` and `log_disk_percentage` parameters. `log_disk_size` specifies the size of the disk where REDO logs are stored, and the default value is `0`. `log_disk_percentage` specifies the percentage of the disk space occupied by REDO logs, and the default value is `0`. The rules for using the two parameters are described in the following list:

   * If the value of `log_disk_size` is `0` but the value of `log_disk_percentage` is not `0`, the system allocates log disk space based on the value of `log_disk_percentage`.

   * If the value of `log_disk_size` is not `0`, the system allocates log disk space based on the value of `log_disk_size`, regardless of whether the value of `log_disk_percentage` is `0`.

   * If the values of both `log_disk_size` and `log_disk_percentage` are `0`, the system automatically calculates the percentage of the disk space occupied by REDO logs. The percentage depends on whether the disk is shared by REDO logs and data.

      * If the disk is shared, the percentage of the disk space occupied by REDO logs is 30%.

      * If the disk is exclusive for REDO logs, the percentage of the disk space occupied by REDO logs is 90%.

   For more information about the `log_disk_size` parameter, see [log_disk_size](../../../../5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/237.log_disk_size.md).

   For more information about the `log_disk_percentage` parameter, see [log_disk_percentage](../../../../5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/238.log_disk_percentage.md).

* `resource_hard_limit`: a specific system parameter.

   The system allocates CPU resources based on the value of the `resource_hard_limit` parameter. Value range: [1,10000]. The default value is `100`, indicating that over-allocation is not allowed.

   For more information about the `resource_hard_limit` parameter, see [resource_hard_limit](../../../../5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/168.resource_hard_limit.md).

To downgrade the configurations of a resource unit, make sure that the total amounts of resources including the CPU, memory, and log disk capacity are greater than or equal to the used resources of the disk.

## Limitations

Only the `sys` tenant can modify resource unit configurations.

## Procedure

You can modify one or more of the CPU, memory, IOPS, and log disk configurations of a resource unit. The configurations that are not modified remain unchanged.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Modify the configurations of a resource unit.

   Sample statement:

   ```sql
   ALTER RESOURCE UNIT unitname
   MAX_CPU [=] cpunum,
   [MIN_CPU [=] cpunum,]
   MEMORY_SIZE [=] memsize,
   [MAX_IOPS [=] iopsnum, MIN_IOPS [=] iopsnum,IOPS_WEIGHT [=]iopsweight,]
   [LOG_DISK_SIZE [=] logdisksize];
   ```

   Modify the configurations of the `unit1` resource unit.

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER RESOURCE UNIT unit1 MAX_CPU 15, MEMORY_SIZE '20G', LOG_DISK_SIZE '4G';
   ```
