# Drop a resource unit

You can drop a resource unit that is no longer in use.

## Prerequisites

Before you drop a resource unit, make sure that the resource unit is not in use. To drop a resource unit that is in use, remove it from the resource pool first.

Before you drop a resource unit, you must check whether the resource unit is in use.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to check whether the resource unit is allocated to a resource pool:

   Sample code:

   ```sql
    obclient> SELECT a.UNIT_CONFIG_ID, a.NAME FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_UNIT_CONFIGS a,oceanbase.DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS b WHERE b.UNIT_CONFIG_ID=a.UNIT_CONFIG_ID;
    +----------------+-----------------+
    | UNIT_CONFIG_ID | NAME            |
    +----------------+-----------------+
    |              1 | sys_unit_config |
    |           1001 | unit001         |
    |           1001 | unit001         |
    +----------------+-----------------+
    3 rows in set
   ```

If the resource unit name is not in the `name` column in the query result, the resource unit is not allocated to the resource pool. If the resource unit name is in the `name` column of the query result, the resource unit is allocated to the resource pool.

## Procedure

* Resource unit not in use

   If the resource unit is not allocated to a resource pool, you can directly drop the resource unit. Syntax:

   ```sql
   obclient> DROP RESOURCE UNIT unit1;
   ```

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>This statement <code></code>drops only a single resource unit at a time. </p>
  </main>

* Resource unit in use

   If the resource unit has been allocated to a resource pool, you must specify a new resource unit for the resource pool before you drop the resource unit.

   Sample code:

   Assume that `unit1` is to be dropped and `unit1` has been allocated to `pool1`. If you want to remove `unit1`, you must create `unit2` and allocate it to `pool1` before you drop `unit1`.

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit2 MAX_CPU=4, MIN_CPU=4, MEMORY_SIZE='5G', MAX_IOPS=1024, MIN_IOPS=1024, IOPS_WEIGHT=0, LOG_DISK_SIZE='2G';

   obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT='unit2';

   obclient> DROP RESOURCE UNIT unit1;
   ```
