|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Introduction to scaling in/out

As user businesses grow or decline, and business peaks vary at different times, it is necessary for the database to provide elastic service capabilities. OceanBase Database supports elastic service capabilities through scaling in and out.

## Scaling out

Scaling out involves increasing computing and storage capabilities. OceanBase Database provides two ways to achieve scaling out:

* Improving the service capability of a single node: You can increase a tenant's resource specifications (Unit Config) to improve the service capability of a single node. For detailed instructions, see [Modify the unit config for a tenant](../800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/200.adjust-resource-specifications.md).

* Adding service nodes: You can increase the number of resource units and primary zones to add service nodes for a tenant, thereby improving the tenant's overall service capabilities. For example, if a tenant has N service nodes, you can scale out by increasing the number of service nodes to M, where M > N.

   * When the number of resource units changes from N to M, it requires adding (M - N) log streams within each primary zone, distributed among the newly added (M - N) unit groups. For detailed instructions, see [Modify the number of resource units for a tenant](../800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/300.adjust-unit-number.md).

   * When the number of primary zones changes from N to M, it requires adding (M - N) log streams within each unit group, with their leaders distributed among the newly added (M - N) primary zones. For detailed instructions, see [Modify the number of primary zones for a tenant](../800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/400.adjust-primary-zone.md).

## Scaling in

Scaling in is the reverse operation of scaling out. There are two ways to achieve scale in: reducing the service capability of a single node or decreasing the number of service nodes.
