# Automatic statistics collection

At present, the OceanBase Database optimizer implements automatic statistics collection daily by using `MAINTENANCE WINDOW` provided by the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` system package, thereby ensuring continuous iterative updates of statistics.

## MAINTENANCE WINDOW

OceanBase Database runs seven automatic statistics collection jobs in the maintenance windows from Monday to Sunday, with one job each day. From Monday to Friday, the jobs start at 22:00, and the maximum collection duration is 4 hours. On Saturday and Sunday, the jobs start at 6:00, and the maximum collection duration is 20 hours, as shown in the following table.

| Maintenance window | Start time/Frequency | Maximum collection duration |
| --- | --- | --- |
| MONDAY_WINDOW | 22:00/Per week | 4 hours |
| TUESDAY_WINDOW | 22:00/Per week | 4 hours |
| WEDNESDAY_WINDOW | 22:00/Per week | 4 hours |
| THURSDAY_WINDOW | 22:00/Per week | 4 hours |
| FRIDAY_WINDOW | 22:00/Per week | 4 hours |
| SATURDAY_WINDOW | 6:00/Per week | 20 hours |
| SUNDAY_WINDOW | 6:00/Per week | 20 hours |

### Query MAINTENANCE WINDOW information

At present, `MAINTENANCE WINDOW` in OceanBase Database is implemented based on the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` system package. Therefore, you can also query relevant information of `MAINTENANCE WINDOW` in views related to the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` system package.

| Mode | View | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Oracle mode | DBA_SCHEDULER_JOBS | Displays information about jobs. |
| Oracle mode | sys.ALL_VIRTUAL_TENANT_SCHEDULER_JOB_REAL_AGENT | The agent table that displays job information. |
| MySQL mode | oceanbase.DBA_SCHEDULER_JOBS | Displays information about jobs. |

### Set properties of MAINTENANCE WINDOW

At present, properties of `MAINTENANCE WINDOW` in OceanBase Database are set based on the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` system package. The following syntaxes ar supported:

* Disable or enable automatic statistics collection:

   ```sql
   DBMS_SCHEDULER.DISABLE($window_name);

   DBMS_SCHEDULER.ENABLE($window_name);
   ```

   * Example 1: Disable automatic statistics collection for Mondays.

      ```sql
      CALL  DBMS_SCHEDULER.DISABLE('MONDAY_WINDOW');
      ```

   * Example 2: Enable automatic statistics collection for Mondays.

      ```sql
      CALL DBMS_SCHEDULER.ENABLE('MONDAY_WINDOW');
      ```

* Set the time when the next statistics collection job starts:

   ```sql
   DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE($window_name, 'NEXT_DATE', $next_time);
   ```

   Example: Set the start time of the automatic statistics collection job for Mondays to 8 p.m.

   ```sql
   CALL DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE('MONDAY_WINDOW', 'NEXT_DATE', '2022-09-12 20:00:00');
   ```


## DML STATS

DML STATS records the numbers of addition, deletion, and modification operations performed on a table.

DML STATS of a table is essential for automatic statistics collection. It determines whether statistics need to be collected again on a table. Not all tables in the database are updated daily. Therefore, for tables that do not have data changes and tables whose data changes are within the expected scope, statistics do not need to be collected again. This mechanism improves the execution efficiency of automatic statistics collection jobs.

The following table lists the views that provide DML STATS information in Oracle and MySQL modes.

| Mode | View | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Oracle mode | GV\$DML_STATS and V\$DML_STATS | Displays the DML STATS information of tables recorded in the virtual table. |
| Oracle mode | sys.ALL_VIRTUAL_MONITOR_MODIFIED_REAL_AGENT | Displays the DML STATS information of tables recorded in the agent table. |
| Oracle mode | ALL_TAB_MODIFICATIONS, DBA_TAB_MODIFICATIONS, and USER_TAB_MODIFICATIONS | Displays all the DML STATS information in the table. |
| MySQL mode | oceanbase.GV\$DML_STATS and oceanbase.V\$DML_STATS | Displays the DML STATS information of tables recorded in the virtual table. |
| MySQL mode | oceanbase.DBA_TAB_MODIFICATIONS | Displays all the DML STATS information in the table. |

## Automatic statistics collection strategies

In OceanBase Database, statistics are considered as expired when they meet the following criteria: the percentage of incremental DML operations on the current table exceeds the specified threshold. The percentage of incremental DML operations is the number of addition, deletion, and modification operations performed on the table during the period between the last statistics collection and the current statistics collection to the total number of DML operations in the last statistics collection. The default value of the threshold is 10%. You can use a preference to adjust the threshold. For more information, see [Manage statistics preferences](../300.statistics-management/700.collection-policy-configuration-items-prefs-management.md).

The OceanBase Database optimizer automatically collects statistics based on the following strategies:

* Automatic statistics collection strategies for system tables and non-partitioned user tables:

   * If the table does not have global statistics, statistics are collected automatically.

   * If the table has global statistics and the statistics have expired, statistics are collected automatically.

   Otherwise, the OceanBase Database optimizer does not automatically collect statistics.

* OceanBase Database supports the following automatic statistics collection strategies for partitioned tables:

   * If the table does not have any statistics, collect all statistics automatically.

   * If the table has partition-level statistics but no global statistics, collect statistics automatically in an incremental way.

   * If the table has global statistics and the statistics have expired, all statistics are collected automatically.

   * If the table has global statistics, and the statistics on only some partitions have expired, the system automatically collects the statistics on partitions with expired statistics and deduces the global statistics based on the incremental data.
