|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) runs in a Docker container. OCP and OceanBase Database have the same requirements on the server architecture and Linux OS.

## Introduction to OCP

OCP is an enterprise-level database management platform designed for OceanBase Database. With OCP, you can install, upgrade, scale out, or uninstall an OceanBase cluster with a few clicks, create and manage O&M tasks, monitor the running status of clusters, and view alerts.

OCP supports all major versions of OceanBase Database and the full-lifecycle management of components such as OceanBase clusters and OceanBase tenants. It manages OceanBase Database resources such as hosts, networks, and software packages. You can use OCP to manage OceanBase clusters more efficiently at reduced IT O&M costs.

OCP supports two deployment modes: single-node deployment and high-availability deployment.

## Single-node deployment

In single-node deployment, all features of OCP are deployed on one node, including OCP-Server, MetaDB, MonitorDB, and OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP).

This deployment mode has the following benefits:

All services are deployed on one host, which minimizes the required resources.

All requests are handled on one host without distributed processing, which facilitates log lookup and debugging.

In this deployment mode, OCP depends on fewer services and does not require server load balancing.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Single-node deployment applies to scenarios with low availability and fast verification requirements. </p>
  </main>

## High-availability deployment

High-availability deployment is categorized into multi-cluster deployment and multi-zone deployment. In multi-cluster mode, you can deploy multiple OCP clusters across regions to manage primary and standby OceanBase clusters across regions. You can manage primary and standby OceanBase clusters across OCP clusters. For example, you can create, delete, and update primary and standby OceanBase clusters, and perform switchover and failover. This mode implements a high-availability redundancy architecture based on two IDCs.

In this deployment mode, the entire system remains available when a minority of hosts or services become unavailable.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>High-availability deployment applies to production environments with high availability requirements. </p>
  </main>