|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# enable_transfer

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.1. </p>
</main>

## Description

`enable_transfer` specifies whether to allow transfer within a tenant. This parameter is invalid when `enable_rebalance` is set to False. 

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| Type | BOOL |
| Default value | True |
| Value range | <ul><li> True: enable </li><li>False: disable </li></ul> |
| Modifiable  | Yes. It can be modified using the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement.|
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |

## Considerations

The load balancing strategy within the tenant is jointly controlled by the tenant-level parameters `enable_rebalance` and `enable_transfer`.

The `enable_rebalance` parameter is used in the sys tenant to control whether cross-tenant load balancing is performed, and in the user tenant to control whether intra-tenant balancing is performed. The default value is `true`. The setting takes effect immediately without the need of restarting the OBServer node.

The `enable_transfer` parameter is used to control whether the transfer feature is enabled within the tenant. The default value is `true`, and the setting takes effect immediately without the need of restarting the OBServer node. The meaning of the `enable_transfer` value depends on the value of the `enable_rebalance` parameter.

* If the value of `enable_rebalance` is `false`, regardless of whether the value of `enable_transfer` is `true` or `false`, the system will not perform automatic load balancing. The command to disable all load balancing is as follows:

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance=false;
  ```

* If both the value of `enable_rebalance` and `enable_transfer` is `true`, it indicates that during tenant scaling, the system will automatically adjust the partition distribution to achieve load balancing. The commands for dynamically adjusting the number of tenant log streams based on the load balancing algorithm, and automatically performing tenant-level leader balance and partition balance are as follows:

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance=true;
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer=true;
  ```

* If the value of `enable_rebalance` is `true` and the value of `enable_transfer` is `false`, it indicates that during tenant scaling, the system cannot initiate transfer operations and can only achieve limited balancing through log stream migration. The commands for performing only log stream balancing based on the existing log stream without generating transfer or dynamically changing the number of log streams are as follows:

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance=true;
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer=false;
  ```

## Examples

* Set the the load balancing strategy for a specified tenant from the sys tenant.

  * Enable intra-tenant load balancing and transfer for the specified tenant:

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true TENANT = 'tenant_name';
    ```

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = true TENANT = 'tenant_name';
    ```

    The above statements indicate that only the values of the parameters `enable_rebalance` and `enable_transfer` are set to `true` for the specified tenant.

  * Enable cross-tenant load balancing and transfer for all user tenants (excluding the `sys` tenant and Meta tenant):

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true TENANT = all_user;
    ```

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = true TENANT = all_user;
    ```

    or

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true TENANT = all;
    ```

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = true TENANT = all;
    ```

    The above statements indicate that the values of the parameters `enable_rebalance` and `enable_transfer` are set to `true` for all user tenants.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Starting from OceanBase Database V4.2.1, the semantic of <code>TENANT = all_user</code> is the same as <code>TENANT = all</code>. When the scope of application needs to cover all user tenants, it is recommended to use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated and no longer supported.</p>
    </main>

* Set the the load balancing strategy for the current tenant from the user tenant.

    :::tab
    tab MySQL mode

    The statement to enable intra-tenant load balancing and transfer for the current MySQL tenant is as follows:

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true;
    ```

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = true;
    ```

    tab Oracle mode

    The statement to enable intra-tenant load balancing and transfer for the current Oracle tenant is as follows:

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = 'true';
    ```

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = 'true';
    ```

    :::

## References

* [Modify the number of resource units for a tenant](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/300.adjust-unit-number.md)
* [Modify the number of primary zones for a tenant](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/400.adjust-primary-zone.md)
* [enable_transfer](6700.enable_rebalance.md)