| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# enable_transfer

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.2.1. </p>
</main>

## Description

`enable_transfer` specifies whether to allow transfer within a tenant. This parameter is invalid when `enable_rebalance` is set to `False`.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| Type | Boolean |
| Default value | True |
| Value range | <ul><li> `True`: enable </li><li>`False`: disable </li></ul> |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter.  |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |

## Considerations

The load balancing strategy for a tenant is jointly controlled by the tenant-level parameters `enable_rebalance` and `enable_transfer`.

You can specify the `enable_rebalance` parameter in the sys tenant to control whether to enable load balancing among tenants, and specify this parameter in a user tenant to control whether to enable load balancing for the current tenant. The default value is `true`. The setting takes effect immediately without the need to restart the OBServer node.

You can specify the `enable_transfer` parameter to control whether to enable the transfer feature for a tenant. The default value is `true`. The setting takes effect immediately without the need to restart the OBServer node. The `enable_transfer` parameter depends on the value of the `enable_rebalance` parameter.

* If the value of `enable_rebalance` is `false`, the system does not perform automatic load balancing regardless of whether the value of `enable_transfer` is `true` or `false`. The command to disable load balancing is as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance=false;
   ```

* If the value of `enable_rebalance` is `true` and the value of `enable_transfer` is `true`, the system automatically adjusts partition distribution to achieve load balancing during a tenant scaling operation. You can dynamically adjust the number of log streams for a tenant based on the load balancing algorithm and enable automatic leader balancing and partition balancing in the tenant as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance=true;
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer=true;
   ```

* If the value of `enable_rebalance` is `true` and the value of `enable_transfer` is `false`, the system cannot initiate transfer operations during tenant scaling, but can implement limited load balancing through log stream migration. You can balance existing log streams without transfer or dynamic changes in the number of log streams as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance=true;
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer=false;
   ```

## Examples

* Enable load balancing for a specified tenant from the `sys` tenant

   * Enable load balancing and the transfer feature for a specified tenant from the `sys` tenant

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true TENANT = 'tenant_name';
      ```

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = true TENANT = 'tenant_name';
      ```

      These statements only set the values of the `enable_rebalance` and `enable_transfer` parameters to `true` for the specified user tenant.

   * Enable intra-tenant load balancing and the transfer feature for all user tenants from the `sys` tenant

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true TENANT = all_user;
      ```

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = true TENANT = all_user;
      ```

      or

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true TENANT = all;
      ```

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = true TENANT = all;
      ```

      These statements only set the values of the `enable_rebalance` and `enable_transfer` parameters to `true` for all user tenants.

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all user tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>
      </main>

* Enable load balancing for a user tenant from the current tenant

   :::tab
   tab MySQL mode

   You can execute the following statements to enable load balancing and the transfer feature for a MySQL tenant:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true;
   ```

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = true;
   ```

   tab Oracle mode

   You can execute the following statements to enable load balancing and the transfer feature for an Oracle tenant:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = 'true';
   ```

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_transfer = 'true';
   ```

   :::

## References

* [Modify the number of resource units for a tenant](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/300.adjust-unit-number.md)
* [Modify the number of primary zones for a tenant](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/400.adjust-primary-zone.md)
* [enable_transfer](2800.enable_rebalance.md)
