|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# enable_rebalance

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul><li>This parameter is introduced since OceanBase Database V1.4.</li><li>This parameter is changed from a cluster-level parameter to a tenant-level parameter since OceanBase Database V4.2.0.</li></ul>
</main>

## Description

`enable_rebalance` specifies whether to enable automatic load balancing.

You can specify the parameter in different tenants to control different balancing operations:

* For sys tenants, you can use it to control whether perform cross-tenant balancing.

   * `false`: Units are not migrated in the background. However, when the node is permanently removed or in the DELETING state, unit migration is not controlled by the parameter. 
   * `true`: Unit migration can be performed to achieve load balancing. 

* For user tenants, you can use it to control whether perform intra-tenant balancing.

   * `false`: No more load balancing operations are performed within the tenant. Load balancing operations in progress are canceled. If a scaling operation, such as any of the following operations, is initiated when the value is set to false, an error is reported:
  
      * Change the number of units in the tenant. 
      * Change the primary zone of the top priority. 
      * Change the number of full-featured replicas when primary_zone is set to RANDOM. 
   * `true`: Load balancing operations can be performed within the tenant. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>If you want to enable load balancing across tenants, set the <code>enable_rebalance</code> parameter to <code>true</code> in the sys tenant. You can disable this parameter to ensure that no cross-tenant load balancing operation is performed. </li>
  <li> If you want to enable scaling of a tenant or automatic load balancing and migration of partitions in the tenant, set the <code>enable_rebalance</code> parameter to <code>true</code> in the tenant. If you want to disable automatic load balancing in a tenant, set this parameter to <code>false</code> in the tenant. </li>
  </ul>
</main>

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| Type | BOOL |
| Default value | True |
| Value range | <ul><li>  `True`: enable </li><li> `False`: disable </li></ul> |
| Modifiable  | Yes. It can be modified using the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement.|
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |

## Examples

* Disable both cross-tenant and intra-tenant load balancing: 

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = false tenant = all_user;
    ```

* Enable only cross-tenant load balancing:

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true tenant='all_user';
    ```

* Disable cross-tenant load balancing and enable intra-tenant load balancing:

    ```shell
    obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = false tenant='all_user';
              ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true tenant='MYSQL';
    ```

## References

* [Modify the number of resource units for a tenant](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/300.adjust-unit-number.md)
* [Modify the number of primary zones for a tenant](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/400.adjust-primary-zone.md)
* [Resource unit balancing](../../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/300.multi-tenant-architecture/500.tenants-and-resource-management/300.resource-unit-balancing.md)
* [enable_rebalance](25600.enable_transfer.md)