# FAQ of obcdc

This topic describes the FAQ and considerations of obcdc. 

## How can I judge whether the startup timestamp is too small?

obcdc allows you to configure a log-pulling point in time. obcdc will pull logs that are committed later than this point in time, which is referred to as the startup timestamp. 

### Considerations

1. obcdc supports cluster-level synchronization among tenants. When logs are synchronized in the entire cluster, make sure that the clocks on all servers are synchronized. Significant Global Timestamp Service (GTS) time difference between the tenants will cause obcdc to exit due to the rollback of a security timestamp.
   We recommend that you use obcdc V4.x to synchronize data of only one tenant at a time. 
2. At present, obcdc does not support synchronizing data of a cluster that has a standby tenant. 
3. Logs can be consumed offline only when `fetching_log_mode` is set to `direct` and `meta_data_refresh_mode` is set to `data_dict`. In other cases, obcdc must send RPC requests to the OBServer node to pull logs, and you must configure the parameters to access the OBServer node, such as `cluster_url` or `rootserver_list`. 

### Limitations for startup timestamps

When obcdc pulls data of a single tenant, if the pulling timestamp is too small, obcdc may fail to start. The following limits apply.

1. Startup timestamp limits for synchronizing data of a single tenant

   1. When `fetching_log_mode` is set to `integrated`, the limits differ in the following cases:

      1. Archiving is disabled

         The startup timestamp specified for obcdc must be greater than the largest `BEGIN_SCN` value of all log streams of the tenant. You can execute the following SQL statement to query this SCN. 

         ```shell
         SELECT CEIL(MAX(BEGIN_SCN)/1000) AS START_TS_US FROM oceanbase.GV$OB_LOG_STAT;
         ```

      2. Archiving is enabled

         The pulling timestamp specified for obcdc must be smaller than the smaller of the following two values: 

         1. The largest `BEGIN_SCN` value of all log streams of the tenant 
         2. The value of `START_SCN`, which indicates the time when archiving is enabled for the tenant. You can execute the following SQL statement in a tenant to query the time when archiving is enabled for the tenant. 

            ```shell
            SELECT CEIL(MAX(START_SCN)/1000) as START_TS_US  FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_ARCHIVELOG;
            ```

   2. When `fetching_log_mode` is set to `direct`, obcdc can synchronize the data of only a single tenant. Make sure that the startup time of obcdc is later than the point in time when log archiving is enabled. 

      To use data dictionaries, make sure that the startup time is greater than the smallest `snapshot_scn` value in the data dictionaries of the tenant. You can execute the following statement in a tenant to query the smallest `snapshot_scn` value in the data dictionaries of the tenant. 

      ```shell
      SELECT CEIL(MIN(snapshot_scn)/1000) FROM __all_data_dictionary_in_log;
      ```

2. Synchronize the data of multiple tenants

   When you pull the data of a cluster (multiple tenants), make sure that each tenant meets the preceding conditions regarding the startup timestamp specified for obcdc. 
