Overview
========

As the core component for ensuring the high availability of OceanBase Database, the backup and recovery components ensure data security by preventing storage media damage and misoperations of users. If data is lost due to misoperations or storage media damage, you can recover the data through the recovery function.

OceanBase Database supports both Object Storage Service (OSS) and Network File System (NFS) for data backup. It provides backup, recovery, and management functions.

OceanBase Database supports physical backup of clusters. The physical backup consists of baseline data and log archive data. Therefore, the physical backup function is the combination of log archiving and data backup:

* Log archiving refers to the automatic archiving function of log data. OBServer regularly archives the log data to the specified backup path. It is fully automatic and does not require regular external triggering.
* Data backup refers to the backup function of baseline data. This function includes full backup and incremental backup:

<!-- -->

* Full backup is the backup of all baseline data.
* Incremental backup is the backup of macroblocks that are added or modified since the last backup.

OceanBase Database supports tenant-level data recovery, which allows you to create a tenant based on the backup of existing data. You can run the "alter system restore tenant" command to recover the data. The recovery process includes the restoration and recovery of system tables and user tables of the tenant. The restoration process restores the specified baseline data to the OBServer of the target tenant. The recovery process recovers the logs of the baseline data to the corresponding OBServer.

OceanBase Database supports manual deletion of specified backups and automatically marks backups as expired.
