|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Create an index

This topic describes how to create an index.

## Background information

OceanBase Database allows you to create local indexes, global indexes, unique indexes, non-unique indexes, or function-based indexes on non-partitioned and partitioned tables.

This topic describes how to create an index on a non-partitioned table. For information about how to create an index on a partitioned table, see [Create an index on a partitioned table](../200.manage-partitions-of-oracle-mode/900.create-partition-table-index-of-oracle-mode/200.local-index-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Considerations

When you create an index on a table in OceanBase Database, make sure that the index name is unique within the table.

## Create a normal index

You can use the `CREATE INDEX` statement to create a normal index. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CREATE [UNIQUE] INDEX index_name ON table_name ( column_name );
```

where

* `index_name` specifies the name of the index to be created.

* `UNIQUE` indicates a unique index. This parameter is optional. You must specify this parameter when you create a unique index.

* `table_name` specifies the name of the table on which the index is to be created.

* `column_list` specifies the name of the column to be indexed. If you specify multiple columns, separate the columns with commas (,).

Example: Create a table named `tbl2` table and then create an index named `tbl2_idx1`.

1. Create a table named `tbl2`.

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE tbl2(id NUMBER,name VARCHAR2(20));
   ```

2. Create an index named `tbl2_idx1` on the `tbl2` table.

   ```sql
   CREATE INDEX tbl2_idx1 ON tbl2(name);
   ```

3. View the index information.

   ```sql
   SELECT index_name,index_type,table_owner,table_name,uniqueness FROM user_indexes WHERE table_name='TBL2';
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +------------+------------+-------------+------------+------------+
   | INDEX_NAME | INDEX_TYPE | TABLE_OWNER | TABLE_NAME | UNIQUENESS |
   +------------+------------+-------------+------------+------------+
   | TBL2_IDX1  | NORMAL     | SYS         | TBL2       | NONUNIQUE  |
   +------------+------------+-------------+------------+------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

## Create a function-based index

A function-based index is created based on the result of any function applied to a column or multiple columns. Function-based indexing is an optimization technique. You can use function-based indexes to quickly locate function values that match query conditions. This avoids repeated calculation and improves query efficiency.

Assume that you have a table named `sale` and that the table has a column named `date_col` of the `date` type.

```sql
CREATE TABLE sale(date_col date, sales_col int, name_col varchar2(10));
```

If you want to obtain the data of March, you can use the `to_char` function.

```sql
SELECT * FROM sale WHERE to_char(date_col,'MM') = 3;
```

In this scenario, the database must calculate the `to_char(date_col,'MM')` value for each row in the table and filter out rows that do not meet the condition `to_char(date_col,'MM') = 3`. If you need to frequently filter data by month and the `to_char(date_col,'MM')` values need to be calculated each time, the overhead is high. In this case, you can create a function-based index on the `date_col` column to store the `to_char(date_col,'MM')` values in an index table to accelerate queries.

```sql
CREATE INDEX idx1 ON sale((to_char(date_col,'MM')));
```

### Limitations

The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database imposes limitations on expressions of function-based indexes. Specifically, the expressions of some system functions cannot be used as function-based indexes. For more information about the relevant functions, see [System functions supported for function-based indexes](../400.manage-indexes-of-oracle-mode/500.function-index-list-of-supported-functions-of-oracle-mode.md) and [System functions not supported for function-based indexes](../400.manage-indexes-of-oracle-mode/600.function-index-list-of-not-supported-functions-of-oracle-mode.md).

### Create function-based indexes by executing SQL statements

You can use the `CREATE INDEX` statement to create a function-based index. A function-based index can be a unique index. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CREATE [UNIQUE] INDEX index_name ON table_name (expr);
```

where

* `[UNIQUE]` indicates a unique index. This parameter is optional. It is required when you create a unique index.

* `index_name` specifies the name of the function-based index to be created.

* `table_name` specifies the name of the table on which the function-based index is to be created.

* `expr` specifies the expression of the function-based index. It cannot be a Boolean expression, such as `c1=c1`.

Example: Create a function-based index named `tbl2_func_idx1` with an expression of `c1+1`.

1. Create a table named `tbl2_func`.

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE tbl2_func(c1 int, c2 int);
   ```

2. Create a function-based index named `tbl2_func_idx1`.

   ```sql
   CREATE INDEX tbl2_func_idx1 ON TBL2_FUNC ((c1+1));
   ```

3. View the created function-based index.

   ```sql
   SELECT index_name,index_type,table_owner,table_name,uniqueness FROM user_indexes WHERE table_name='TBL2_FUNC';
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +----------------+-----------------------+-------------+------------+------------+
   | INDEX_NAME     | INDEX_TYPE            | TABLE_OWNER | TABLE_NAME | UNIQUENESS |
   +----------------+-----------------------+-------------+------------+------------+
   | TBL2_FUNC_IDX1 | FUNCTION-BASED NORMAL | SYS         | TBL2_FUNC  | NONUNIQUE  |
   +----------------+-----------------------+-------------+------------+------------+
   1 row in set
   ```
