| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Overview

Spatial data types are used for storing and processing geospatial data. OceanBase Database in Oracle mode supports the spatial data type `SDO_GEOMETRY`. `SDO_GEOMETRY` is a composite data type used for storing and processing 2D or 3D geometries. 

Currently, OceanBase Database in Oracle mode supports seven spatial object types defined by OpenGIS Consortium (OGC), including Point, LineString, Polygon, MultiPoint, MultiLineString, MultiPolygon, and GeometryCollection, each consisting of a sequence of connected points. Both 2D and 3D spatial data are supported. 

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>The current version of OceanBase Database does not support points connected by arcs. </p>
</main>

## SDO_GEOMETRY features

### Feature 1: SDO_GEOMETRY support

You can specify `SDO_GEOMETRY` as the data type and operate data of the `SDO_GEOMETRY` type in PL/SQL. 

### Feature 2: SDO_GEOMETRY member functions

The `SDO_GEOMETRY` data type provides member functions for the construction, query, and format conversion of spatial objects. 

* Construction: Spatial objects of the `SDO_GEOMETRY` type can be constructed by the default function `SDO_GEOMETRY()` from well-known text (WKT) or well-known binary (WKB) data. 

* Query: `SDO_GEOMETRY` provides some member functions for querying attributes of spatial objects. For example, you can call `GET_DIMS()` to obtain the number of dimensions of a geometry, call `GET_GTYPE()` to get the type code of a geometry, and call `ST_ISVALID()` to test whether a geometry is valid. 

* Format conversion: `SDO_GEOMETRY` supports conversion of spatial objects to other formats. For example, you can call `GET_WKB()` to convert `SDO_GEOMETRY` to the WKB format, call `GET_WKT()` to convert `SDO_GEOMETRY` to the WKT format, and call `GET_GEOJSON()` to convert `SDO_GEOMETRY` to the JSON format. 

For more information about member functions of `SDO_GEOMETRY`, see [Overview](../../../500.functions-of-oracle-mode/200.single-row-functions-of-oracle-mode/1400.spatial-functions-of-oracle-mode/100.spatial-functions-overview-of-oracle-mode.md). 

### Feature 3: SDO_GEOMETRY data storage

You can define `SDO_GEOMETRY` columns in a table, which are then stored as `BLOB` columns. 

### Feature 4: SDO_GEOMETRY attribute access

`SDO_GEOMETRY` is a compound data type that contains multiple intrinsic attributes. You can access these attributes in PL/SQL. 

## SDO_GEOMETRY definition

```sql
CREATE TYPE sdo_geometry AS OBJECT (
  SDO_GTYPE NUMBER,
  SDO_SRID NUMBER,
  SDO_POINT SDO_POINT_TYPE,
  SDO_ELEM_INFO SDO_ELEM_INFO_ARRAY,
  SDO_ORDINATES SDO_ORDINATE_ARRAY);
```

### Attributes

#### SDO_GTYPE

`SDO_GTYPE` indicates the type code of the geometry. The value is a `NUMBER` value in the **DLTT** format. 

**Fields in DLTT**

* `D`: the number of dimensions. For example, the value `2` indicates a 2D geometry, while the value `3` indicates a 3D geometry. 
* `L`: the linear referencing system. For a 2D geometry, the value of `L` is `0`. 

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>In the current version of OceanBase Database, <code>L</code> does not support other values. </p>
    </main>

* `TT`: the specific geometry type. The value ranges from 01 to 07. 

| Value | Geometry type | Description |
|-------|---------------|-------------|
| DL01 | POINT | A geometry that contains one point.  |
| DL02 | LINE | A geometry that contains one straight line.  |
| DL03 | POLYGON | A geometry that contains one polygon.  |
| DL04 | COLLECTION | A geometry that is a collection of different types of spatial objects.  |
| DL05 | MULTIPOINT | A geometry that contains one or more points.  |
| DL06 | MULTILINE | A geometry that contains one or more line segments. The current version of OceanBase Database supports straight line segments only.  |
| DL07 | MULTIPOLYGON | A geometry that contains one or more polygons.  |

#### SDO_SRID

`SDO_SRID` identifies the spatial reference system (SRS) of a geometry. The value is a `NUMBER` value. It determines the coordinate system and projection of the geometry. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p><code>SDO_SRID</code> has the same meaning as <code>SRID</code> in MySQL tenants, which specifies the <code>ID</code> of a SRS. For more information about the SRS in MySQL tenants, see <a href="../../../../200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/100.basic-elements-of-mysql-mode/100.data-type-of-mysql-mode/900.spatial-data-type-of-mysql-mode/200.spacial-reference-system-of-mysql-mode.md">SRS</a>. </p>
</main>

#### SDO_POINT

`SDO_POINT` defines the point coordinates of the geometry. The attribute contains the X, Y, and optional Z coordinates of the geometry. 

`SDO_POINT` is an attribute of `SDO_GEOMETRY` objects and is used for storing coordinate values for Point-type geometries. When both the `SDO_ELEM_INFO` and `SDO_ORDINATES` attributes are `NULL`, and the `SDO_POINT` attribute has a valid value, an object is considered a Point-type geometry. In this case, `SDO_POINT` stores the specific coordinate values of the point. If the `SDO_ELEM_INFO` and `SDO_ORDINATES` attributes are not `NULL`, the `SDO_POINT` attribute is ignored. The coordinates of the geometry are stored in the `SDO_ELEM_INFO` and `SDO_ORDINATES` attributes. 

**`SDO_POINT_TYPE` object definition**

```sql
CREATE TYPE sdo_point_type AS OBJECT (
  X NUMBER,
  Y NUMBER,
  Z NUMBER
);
```

#### SDO_ELEM_INFO

`SDO_ELEM_INFO` defines geometric element information of the geometry. `SDO_ELEM_INFO` is a variable-length array consisting of `NUMBER` values, which can be divided into multiple triplets that explain the `SDO_ORDINATES` attribute. Each triplet set of numbers is interpreted as follows:

* `SDO_STARTING_OFFSET`: the offset within the `SDO_ORDINATES` array where the first coordinate for this element is stored. Offset values start at 1. 
* `SDO_ETYPE`: the element type. `SDO_ETYPE` values 1, 2, 1003 (polygon outer ring, which must be specified in counterclockwise order), and 2003 (polygon inner ring, which must be specified in clockwise order) are considered simple elements. They are defined by a single triplet entry in the `SDO_ELEM_INFO` array. 
* `SDO_INTERPRETATION`: the connection sequence and other features of a simple element. 

**Values and semantics of SDO_ELEM_INFO**

| SDO_ETYPE | SDO_INTERPRETATION | Meaning |
|-----------|--------------------|---------|
| 1 | 1 | A point.  |
| 1 | n > 1 | A point cluster with n points. MultiPoint objects in a GeometryCollection object are also expanded to this type.  |
| 2 | 1 | A line string whose vertices are connected by straight line segments.  |
| 1003 or 2003 | 1 | A simple polygon whose vertices are connected by straight line segments. The last point specified must be exactly the same point as the first. `1003` indicates an outer ring and `2003` indicates an inner ring.  |
| 1003 or 2003 | 3 | A rectangle (sometimes called optimized rectangle). Only the coordinates of the lower-left vertex and upper-right vertex need to be recorded.  |

**Example of SDO_ELEM_INFO_ARRAY**

```sql
SDO_ELEM_INFO_ARRAY(1, 1003, 1)
```

In the above example, the first number `1` indicates to start from the first member of `SDO_ORDINATE_ARRAY`, the second number `1003` indicates a polygon outer ring, and the third number `1` indicates connection by straight line segments. 

#### SDO_ORDINATES

`SDO_ORDINATES` is a variable-length array of no more than 1,048,576 `NUMBER` values, which indicates the coordinate values that make up the boundary of a geometry. This array must always be used in conjunction with the `SDO_ELEM_INFO` attribute to achieve self-interpretation of a geometry. 

**Example of SDO_ORDINATE_ARRAY**

```sql
SDO_ORDINATE_ARRAY(10,105, 15,105, 20,110, 10,110, 10,105)
```

The above example defines an array of coordinates that represent a simple polygon. The array contains the X and Y coordinates of five vertices: (10,105), (15,105), (20,110), (10,110), and (10, 105). These coordinate values in sequence describe a simple polygon. Based on geometric element information provided by the `SDO_ELEM_INFO` attribute, these coordinate values can be interpreted to determine the boundary of the polygon. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>In the above example, each group of coordinate values defines a point on a 2D plane, representing the position of the geometry in the corresponding dimension. This example only specifies the X and Y coordinates, so the coordinate array does not have any Z coordinate values. </p>
</main>

## Examples

Create a 2D point with the type code 2001 and coordinates X = 10, Y = 20, and Z = `NULL`. Do not specify the SRID, `SDO_ELEM_INFO`, or `SDO_ORDINATE_ARRAY`. 

```shell
SDO_GEOMETRY(2001, NULL, SDO_POINT_TYPE(10, 20, NULL), NULL, NULL)
```

## References

* For more information about the member functions of `SDO_GEOMETRY`, see [Overview](../../../500.functions-of-oracle-mode/200.single-row-functions-of-oracle-mode/1400.spatial-functions-of-oracle-mode/100.spatial-functions-overview-of-oracle-mode.md). 
* For more information about how to access the attributes of `SDO_GEOMETRY`, see [SDO_GEOMETRY attribute access](300.sdo-geometry-property-access-of-oracle-mode.md). 
