Install OBD 
================================

This topic describes how to install OceanBase Deployer (OBD). 

OBD is the fastest deployment tool to make OceanBase Database ready to work. We recommend that you use OBD for the best experience. You can also deploy OceanBase Database through the following methods:

* [Build OceanBase Database by using source code](../400.installation-and-deployment/1300.build-oceanbase-database-by-using-source-code.md).

  

* [Install OceanBase Database by using RPM packages](../400.installation-and-deployment/1200.install-oceanbase-database-by-using-rpm-packages.md).

  




Prerequisites 
----------------------------------

Before you install OceanBase Database, make sure that the following prerequisites are satisfied:

* Your servers meet the software and hardware requirements. For more information, see [Resource preparation](../400.installation-and-deployment/300.resource-preparation.md).

  

* Your server has access to the Internet. 

  Otherwise, you need to [install OceanBase Database by using RPM packages](../400.installation-and-deployment/1200.install-oceanbase-database-by-using-rpm-packages.md).
  




Obtain OBD 
-------------------------------

You can get OBD ready to work through the following methods:

* Compiling the source code of OBD. For more information, see [OBD Documentation](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/blob/master/README-CN.md).

  

* Downloading the RPM installation package. For more information, see [OBD Documentation](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/blob/master/README-CN.md).

  




Install OBD 
--------------------------------

Run the following command to install OBD:

```bash
yum install -y ob-deploy-1.0.0-1.el7.x86_64.rpm
source /etc/profile.d/obd.sh
```



Subsequent operations 
------------------------------------------

If your server has access to the Internet, run the `obd cluster deploy` command. Then, OBD checks the server for the OceanBase Database installation package. If the package does not exist, OBD automatically obtains the package from the YUM repository. For more information, see [Use OBD to deploy OceanBase Database](../200.quick-start/400.use-obd-to-deploy-oceanbase-database.md).

