# Set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database

This topic describes how to set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database and provides configuration examples.

## Parameters used to set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database

OceanBase Database provides the following parameters for you to set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database:

* `memory_limit_percentage`: specifies the percentage of maximum server memory that can be occupied by an OceanBase database.

* `memory_limit`: specifies the maximum memory for an OceanBase database. If the `memory_limit` parameter is set to `0`, the `memory_limit_percentage` parameter prevails. Otherwise, the `memory_limit` parameter prevails.

## Scenarios and examples

The following examples illustrate how the values of the `memory_limit_percentage` and `memory_limit` parameters affect the actual maximum memory available to OceanBase Database, with the total server memory being 100 GB.

| Examples | **memory_limit_percentage** | **memory_limit** | **Maximum memory of an OceanBase database** |
|----------|-----------------------------|------------------|-----------------------|
| **Example 1** | 80 | 0 | 80 GB |
| **Example 2** | 80 | 90 GB | 90 GB |

* In example 1, the `memory_limit` parameter is set to `0`. Therefore, the `memory_limit_percentage` parameter prevails, and the maximum memory of the OceanBase database is 80 GB, which is calculated by multiplying 100 GB and 80%.

* In example 2, the `memory_limit` parameter is set to 90 GB. Therefore, the `memory_limit` parameter determines the maximum memory of the OceanBase database, which is 90 GB.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Mainstream OceanBase Database servers are usually configured with 384 GB or 512 GB memory. We recommend that you allocate 80% of the 384 GB server memory or 90% of the 512 GB server memory to an OceanBase database. </p>
  </main>
