# Delete a plan directive

To delete a plan directive means to delete the limit on the CPU resources available for the resource group in the resource management plan. You can call the `DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to delete a plan directive.

## Prerequisites

The resource management plan and resource group configured in the plan directive exist. Otherwise, an error occurs when you delete the plan directive.

## Procedure

1. Log on to an Oracle tenant in the cluster as the administrator of the tenant.

2. Call the `DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to delete the plan directive.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> delimiter //

   obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE(
   PLAN => 'plan_a',
   GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN => 'small_group'
   );
   END ;//

   obclient [SYS]> delimiter ;
   ```

   `PLAN` specifies the name of the resource management plan, and `GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN` specifies the bound resource group.

   In this example, after the limit on the CPU resources available for the `small_group` resource group is deleted, the SQL statements that originally use the resources in the `small_group` resource group will use the resources in the default resource group `OTHER_GROUP`.

3. Query the `DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view to verify whether the plan directive is deleted.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> SELECT PLAN, GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN FROM DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES;
   +--------+------------------+
   | PLAN   | GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN |
   +--------+------------------+
   | PLAN_B | GROUP1           |
   +--------+------------------+
   1 rows in set
   ```

   For more information about the `DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view, see [DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES](../../../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/5.system-overview-of-oracle-mode/2.dictionary-view-of-oracle-mode/125.dba_rsrc_plan_directives-of-oracle-mode.md).

## References

[DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE](../../../../../7.reference/4.development-reference/3.pl-reference/3.pl-oracle/14.pl-system-package-oracle/133.dbms-resource-manager-oracle/7.delete-plan-directive-oracle.md)
