# Tenant resource management

OceanBase Database is a multi-tenant database system. A cluster can contain multiple tenants, and each tenant provides independent database services. OceanBase Database manages the available resources of tenants based on the following concepts: resource unit configuration (unit config), resource pool, and resource unit.

## Create tenant resources

Before you create a tenant, you must specify the resource unit configuration and resource application scope of the tenant. The procedure for creating a tenant is as follows:

* Create a resource unit configuration

* Create a resource pool

* Create a tenant

### Create a resource unit configuration

The resource unit configuration describes the specifications of each resource unit in the resource pool, such as the available CPU cores, memory, storage space, and input/output operations per second (IOPS). You can modify the resource unit configuration to dynamically adjust the specifications of resource units. The resource unit configuration specifies the service capabilities rather than the real-time load of each resource unit.
A sample statement for creating a resource unit configuration is as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT uc1 MAX_CPU 5, MIN_CPU 4, MEMORY_SIZE '36G', MAX_IOPS 128000, MIN_IOPS 128000, LOG_DISK_SIZE '2T' ;
```

Required parameters in the `CREATE RESOURCE UNIT` statement include the following ones:

* `MAX_CPU`

* `MEMORY_SIZE`

Take note of the following description about the optional parameters `MIN_CPU`, `MAX_IOPS`, `MIN_IOPS`, and `LOG_DISK_SIZE`:

* By default, the value of `MIN_CPU` equals to that of `MAX_CPU`.

* By default, the value of `MIN_IOPS` equals to that of `MAX_IOPS`.

* By default, the value of `LOG_DISK_SIZE` is three times of the memory size, and is 2 GB at the minimum.

* The minimum values of `MAX_IOPS` and `MIN_IOPS` are both `1024`, and the value of `MAX_IOPS` must be greater than or equal to that of `MIN_IOPS`.

* If the values of `MIN_IOPS` and `MAX_IOPS` are not specified:

   * The values of `MIN_IOPS` and `MAX_IOPS` are automatically generated based on the value of `MIN_CPU`. One CPU core corresponds to 10,000 IOPS. In other words, `MAX_IOPS = MIN_IOPS = MIN_CPU * 10000`.

   * If `IOPS_WEIGHT` is not specified, `IOPS_WEIGHT = MIN_CPU`. If `IOPS_WEIGHT` is specified, the value specified for `IOPS_WEIGHT` prevails.

* If only `MAX_IOPS` is specified:

   * The value of `MAX_IOPS` is used for `MIN_IOPS`, and vice versa.

   * If `IOPS_WEIGHT` is not specified, the default value `0` is used.

Here, `MIN_CPU` indicates the minimum CPU resource that can be provided by a resource unit that uses the resource unit configuration.

### Resource configuration of a meta tenant

A meta tenant is not configured with independent resource units. Tenant resource management does not involve the meta tenant. By default, the system reserves resources for the meta tenant when a user tenant is created. These resources are automatically deducted from the resources of the user tenant. The resources of a meta tenant, including CPU, MEMORY, IOPS, and LOG_DISK_SIZE, use default settings and cannot be specified by users.

The resources are described as follows:

* CPU resources (CPU): A meta tenant shares CPU resources with the corresponding user tenant. The minimum specification available on ApsaraDB for OceanBase is 1C2G. Therefore, the minimum CPU specification is one core. The CPU resource specification of the meta tenant displayed in the `GV$OB_UNITS` view is `NULL`, which indicates that the meta tenant share the CPU resources with the user tenant.

* Memory resources (MEMORY): Memory resource sharing is not allowed. Memory resources of the meta tenant are isolated from those of the user tenant. By default, the meta tenant occupies 10% of the overall tenant memory specification. To ensure the normal operation of the meta tenant, the meta tenant must have at least 512 MB of memory. The memory specification of the user tenant is the overall tenant memory specification minus the memory specification of the meta tenant. The minimum overall tenant memory specification is adjusted to 1 GB. Here are some examples:

   1. If the overall tenant memory specification is greater than or equal to 10 GB, the ratio of the memory specification of the meta tenant to that of the user tenant is 1:9.

   2. If the overall tenant memory specification is greater than or equal to 2 GB and less than 10 GB, the memory size of the meta tenant is fixed at 1 GB, and the remaining memory is allocated to the user tenant.

   3. If the overall tenant memory specification is less than 2 GB, the memory size of the meta tenant is fixed at 512 MB, and the remaining memory is allocated to the user tenant.

   4. The minimum overall tenant memory specification is 1 GB. In this case, the meta tenant and the user tenant each occupy 512 MB of memory.

* Log disk resources (LOG_DISK_SIZE): You can leave the log disk resource specification unspecified. By default, the log disk size is three times the memory size. The minimum log disk size is 2 GB. Like memory resources, log disk resources cannot be shared between the meta tenant and the user tenant. By default, the meta tenant occupies 10% of the overall tenant disk space. To ensure the normal operation of the meta tenant, the meta tenant must have at least 512 MB of log disk space.

* IOPS resources (IOPS): The meta tenant shares IOPS resources with the corresponding user tenant. The IOPS resource specification of the meta tenant displayed in the `GV$OB_UNITS` view is `NULL`, which indicates that the meta tenant shares the IOPS resources with the user tenant.

The following table lists the resource specifications of a user tenant and a meta tenant.

| Resource parameters | Tenant specifications | User tenant | Meta tenant |
|--------------------|-------------------|---------------------|----------------------------|
| MIN_CPU/MAX_CPU | Minimum: 1 core | Shared CPU resource specifications | Shared CPU resource specifications |
| MEMORY_SIZE | Minimum: 1 GB | Minimum: 512 MB | 10% of the overall tenant memory specification<ul><li> When the overall tenant memory is greater than or equal to 2 GB, the minimum memory of the meta tenant is 1 GB. </li> <li> When the overall tenant memory is less than 2G, the meta tenant memory occupies 512 MB of memory.</li></ul> |
| LOG_DISK_SIZE | Minimum: 2 GB | Minimum: 1.5 GB | 10% of the overall tenant log disk, and 512 MB at the minimum |
| MAX_IOPS/MIN_IOPS | Minimum: 1024 | Shared IOPS resource specifications | Shared IOPS resource specifications |

### Create a resource pool

A resource pool consists of multiple resource units. You can apply a resource unit configuration to a resource pool to specify physical resources for each resource unit in the resource pool. A sample statement for creating a resource pool is as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 2, ZONE_LIST ('zone1', 'zone2');
```

The statement creates a resource pool named `rp1`. You must configure the following elements to create a resource pool:

* `UNIT 'uc1'`: specifies that the resource unit configuration of the resource pool is `uc1`. Each resource unit in the resource pool is configured based on the specifications of `uc1`.

* `ZONE_LIST ('zone1','zone2')`: specifies the application scope of the resource pool and specifies that you want to create the resource units in the resource pool in `zone1` and `zone2`.

* `UNIT_NUM 2`: specifies the number of resource units in the resource pool, indicating that two resource units are to be created in each zone specified by `ZONE_LIST`.

You must deploy each resource on a physical server that can accommodate the resource. A physical server can accommodate only one resource unit in the same resource pool. If `zone1` or `zone2` contains only one physical server or the resources on the physical server do not meet the specifications of `uc1`, the sample statement fails to create the resource pool.

### Create a tenant

After you create the resource pool, you can create a tenant. A resource pool can belong to only one tenant, but a tenant can have one or more resource pools. A tenant can have only one resource pool in the same zone, which means that the zones of multiple resource pools that belong to the same tenant cannot overlap. The set of all resource units in all resource pools of a tenant describes all physical servers available for the tenant.

Sample statements for creating a tenant are as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 2, ZONE_LIST ('z1', 'z2');
obclient>CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 1, ZONE_LIST ('z3');
obclient>CREATE TENANT tt resource_pool_list=('pool1','pool2');
```

In the example, two resource pools `pool1` and `pool2` are created, and then the tenant `tt` is created. The tenant `tt` has two resource units in both `z1` and `z2` and one resource unit in `z3`. The specifications of each resource unit comply with the resource configuration specified by `uc1`.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>The zones of different resource pools allocated to the same tenant must not overlap. </p>
</main>

## Change tenant resources

To change the resources of a tenant, you can modify one or more of the following elements: `UNIT`, `ZONE_LIST`, and `UNIT_NUM`. You can also perform the SPLIT and MERGE operations on resource pools to change tenant resources.

### Modify resource configurations

You can modify the CPU or memory specifications of a resource unit configuration to adjust the resource specifications and service capabilities of a tenant in the resource pool.
Sample statements for modifying a resource unit configuration are as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT uc1 MAX_CPU 5, MIN_CPU 4, MEMORY_SIZE '32G', MMAX_IOPS 128000, MIN_IOPS 128000, LOG_DISK_SIZE '2T';

obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 2, ZONE_LIST ('z1', 'z2');

obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 1, ZONE_LIST ('z3');

obclient> CREATE TENANT tt resource_pool_list=('pool1','pool2');

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE UNIT uc1 MAX_CPU 6,  MEMORY_SIZE '36G';
```

In the example, the resource unit configuration specified for the resource pools `pool1` and `pool2` is `uc1`. The `ALTER RESOURCE UNIT uc1 MAX_CPU 6, MEMORY_SIZE '36G'` statement changes the `MAX_CPU` value of `uc1` to `6` and the `MEMORY_SIZE` value to `36G`. Other configurations remain unchanged. You can modify the resource parameters to adjust the resource specifications of the resource pool for a tenant in the corresponding zone, so as to adjust the service capability of the tenant.

### Switch resource unit configurations

You can switch the resource unit configuration of a resource pool to adjust the resource specifications of each resource unit in the resource pool. This way, the resource specifications and service capabilities of the tenant in the resource pool are adjusted.

A sample statement for switching the resource unit configuration of a resource pool is as follows:

```sql
obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT 'uc2';
```

In this example, the original resource unit configuration of the resource pool `rp1` is `uc1`. The statement switches the resource unit configuration of `rp1` from `uc1` to `uc2`. Theoretically, OceanBase Database allows you to modify the values of `MIN_CPU`, `MAX_CPU`, and `MEMORY_SIZE` at the same time. If you want to adjust the service capabilities of a tenant, you can modify or switch the resource unit configuration. This is equivalent to modifying the specifications of resource units for the tenant. You can modify the specifications of a resource in the following scenarios:

* Increase resource specifications

   Increasing resource specifications is primarily used in tenant resource scaling scenarios, where you can increase the CPU and memory resources separately.

   Example 1:

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT u_c0 MAX_CPU 5, MIN_CPU 4, MEMORY_SIZE '36G', MAX_IOPS 128000, MIN_IOPS 128000, LOG_DISK_SIZE '2T';

   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 unit='u_c0', unit_num=3, zone_list=('z1','z2','z3');

   obclient> ALTER RESOURCE UNIT u_c0 MAX_CPU 10, MIN_CPU 8, MEMORY_SIZE '72G';
   ```

   In example 1, resource unit configuration `u_c0` and resource pool `pool1` are created. Resource pool `pool1` uses resource unit configuration `u_c0`. Then, you can increase the value of `MIN_CPU`, `MAX_CPU`, or `MEMORY_SIZE` of `u_c0`. The adjustment is intended to increase the resource specifications of `pool1`, to upgrade the service capability of the corresponding tenant.

   Example 2:

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT u_c0 MAX_CPU 5, MIN_CPU 4, MEMORY_SIZE '36G', MMAX_IOPS 128000, MIN_IOPS 128000, LOG_DISK_SIZE '2T';

   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT u_c1 MAX_CPU 10, MIN_CPU 8, MEMORY_SIZE '72G', MMAX_IOPS 128000, MIN_IOPS 128000, LOG_DISK_SIZE '2T';

   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 unit='u_c0', unit_num=3, zone_list=('z1','z2','z3');

   obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 unit='u_c1';
   ```

   In example 2, two resource unit configurations `u_c0` and `u_c1` and a resource pool named `pool1` are created. `pool1` originally uses the resource unit configuration `u_c0` and then switches to the resource unit configuration `u_c1`. The adjustment is intended to increase the resource specifications of `pool1`, to upgrade the service capability of the corresponding tenant.

* Decrease resource specifications

   You can decrease resource specifications in the same manner that you increase resource specifications.

### Modify `UNIT_NUM` for unallocated resource pools

You can modify the `UNIT_NUM` parameter of a resource pool to adjust the number of resource units in each zone of the resource pool. This allows you to upgrade or downgrade the service capabilities of the tenant in a specified zone.

Sample statements for modifying the `UNIT_NUM` parameter of a resource pool are as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 2, ZONE_LIST ('zone1', 'zone2');

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT_NUM 3; // Increase the value of the UNIT_NUM parameter.

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT_NUM 2; // Decrease the value of the UNIT_NUM parameter.

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT_NUM 1 DELETE UNIT = (1001, 1003); // Decrease the value of the UNIT_NUM parameter by deleting the specified resource units.
```

When you modify the `UNIT_NUM` parameter, you can increase the value of the `UNIT_NUM` parameter or decrease the value of the `UNIT_NUM` parameter. The `ALTER RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT_NUM 3` statement increases the value of the `UNIT_NUM` parameter. The `ALTER RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT_NUM 2` and `ALTER RESOURCE POOL rp1 UNIT_NUM 1 DELETE UNIT = (1001, 1003)` statements decrease the value of the `UNIT_NUM` parameter.

### Modify `UNIT_NUM` for tenant resource pools

You can modify the `UNIT_NUM` parameter of a resource pool after it is assigned to a tenant. However, in this case, you can only increase the value. You can modify resource pools by tenant only. The modification of a resource pool succeeds only when all resource pools are modified. Sample statements for modifying the `UNIT_NUM` parameter of a tenant resource pool are as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 2, ZONE_LIST ('zone1', 'zone2');

obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 2, ZONE_LIST ('zone3');

obclient> CREATE TENANT tt resource_pool_list=('pool1','pool2');

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE TENANT tt UNIT_NUM = 3;// Increase the value of the UNIT_NUM parameter.
```

### Modify the `ZONE_LIST` parameter

You can modify the `ZONE_LIST` parameter of a resource pool to adjust the scope of zones to which the resource pool applies. This allows you to adjust the scope of zones to which tenant data applies.

Sample statements for modifying the `ZONE_LIST` parameter of a resource pool are as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT_NUM=3, UNIT='unit_config', ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3');

obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 UNIT_NUM=3, UNIT='unit_config', ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3');

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3','z4');

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool2 ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2');
```

When you modify the `ZONE_LIST` parameter, you can expand or narrow the scope of the zones. The `ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3','z4')` statement expands the scope of zones. The `ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool2 ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2')` statement narrows the scope of zones.

### Split a resource pool

You can split a resource pool into multiple resource pools. Sample statements for splitting a resource pool are as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT='uc0', UNIT_NUM=1, ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3');

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 SPLIT INTO ('pool10','pool11','pool12') ON ('z1','z2','z3');

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool10 UNIT='uc1';

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool11 UNIT='uc2';

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool12 UNIT='uc3';
```

### Merge resource pools

You can merge multiple resource pools into one resource pool. Sample statements for merging multiple resource pools are as follows:

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT='uc0', UNIT_NUM=1, ZONE_LIST=('z1');

obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 UNIT='uc0', UNIT_NUM=1, ZONE_LIST=('z2');

obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool3 UNIT='uc0', UNIT_NUM=1, ZONE_LIST=('z3');

obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL MERGE ('pool1','pool2','pool3') INTO ('pool0');
```

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The resource pools can still be used by the tenant when they are being merged. They are merged into one resource pool only from the perspective of the management layer in which the RootService is located, to facilitate unified maintenance. </p>
</main>