# Run the TPC-DS benchmark on OceanBase Database

This topic describes how to run the TPC-DS benchmark on OceanBase Database in analytical processing (AP) scenarios.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>OceanBase Database is extensively optimized in versions later than V4.0.0 to improve the user experience, ease of use, and performance. You can use TPC-DS only for performance tuning based on basic parameters. </p>
</main>

## Introduction to TPC-DS

TPC-DS is a decision support benchmark that contains multi-dimensional regular application models for a decision support system, including queries and data maintenance. It is a representative benchmark for assessing the performance of the system under test (SUT) as a decision support system.

**This benchmark illustrates decision support systems that:**

- Test large-scale data.
- Answer real-world business questions.
- Execute queries with diverse or complex requirements, such as ad-hoc queries, reporting, iterative online analytical processing (OLAP), and data mining.
- Have high CPU and I/O load.
- Periodically perform synchronization with source OLTP databases through database maintenance.
- Provide big data solutions, such as relational database management systems (RDBMSs) and Hadoop/Spark-based systems.

The benchmark result measures the query response time in single-user mode, query throughput in multi-user mode, and data maintenance performance in complex multi-user decision support scenarios.

TPC-DS adopts multi-dimensional schemas such as the star or snowflake schema. It contains seven fact tables and 17 dimension tables, with an average of 18 columns per table. Workloads for TPC-DS include 99 SQL queries, covering the core parts of SQL-1999 and SQL-2003 as well as OLAP. TPC-DS contains complex applications such as statistics collection on large data sets, report generation, online queries, and data mining. The test data and values are skewed, which is consistent with real data. TPC-DS is quite close to real scenarios, and it is also difficult to run the test.

## Prepare the environment

Before testing, prepare the test environment as per the following requirements:

- Java Development Kit (JDK): Use V1.8u131 or later.
- Make: Run the `yum install make` command to install make.
- GCC: Run the `yum install gcc` command to install GCC.
- MySQL-devel: Run the `yum install mysql-devel` command to install MySQL-devel.
- MySQL Connector/Python: Run the `sudo yum install MySQL-python` command to install MySQL Connector/Python.
- PrettyTable: Run the `pip install prettytable` command to install PrettyTable.
- Java Database Connectivity (JDBC): Use mysql-connector-java-5.1.47.
- TPC-DS tools: Click [here](https://www.tpc.org/tpc_documents_current_versions/download_programs/tools-download-request5.asp?bm_type=TPC-H&bm_vers=3.0.0&mode=CURRENT-ONLY) to download the tools.
- OBClient: For more information, see [OBClient Documentation](https://github.com/oceanbase/obclient/blob/master/README.md).
- OceanBase Database: For more information, see [Get started with OceanBase Database](../../200.quickstart/100.quickly-experience-oceanbase-for-community.md).
- IOPS: We recommend that the disk IOPS be above 10,000.
- Tenant specifications:

   ```
   CREATE RESOURCE UNIT tpch_unit max_cpu 30, memory_size '180g';
   CREATE RESOURCE POOL tpch_pool unit = 'tpch_unit', unit_num = 1, zone_list=('zone1','zone2','zone3');
   CREATE TENANT tpch_mysql resource_pool_list=('tpch_pool'),  zone_list('zone1', 'zone2', 'zone3'), primary_zone=RANDOM, locality='F@zone1,F@zone2,F@zone3' set variables ob_compatibility_mode='mysql', ob_tcp_invited_nodes='%',secure_file_priv = '';
   ```

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <ul>
    <li>The preceding tenant specifications are provided based on the hardware configurations in the <a href="https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001166464">TPC-DS benchmark report of OceanBase Database</a>. You need to adjust the specifications based on the hardware configurations of your database. </li>
    <li>We recommend that you not use the <code>obd cluster autodeploy</code> command to deploy the cluster. To ensure stability, this command does not maximize the resource utilization. For example, it does not use all of the memory. We recommend that you modify the configuration file separately to maximize the resource utilization. </li>
  </ul>
</main>

## Deploy the cluster

1. Four OBServer nodes are required to run this test. TPC-DS is deployed on a separate OBServer node for stress testing. When you deploy an OceanBase cluster, three OBServer nodes are required, which are evenly distributed in three zones.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>In the TPC-DS test, the OBServer node for deploying TPC-DS requires only four CPU cores and 16 GB of memory. </p>
    </main>

2. After successful deployment, create the tenant and users required for running the TPC-DS benchmark. The `sys` tenant is a built-in system tenant used for managing the cluster. Do not use the `sys` tenant to run the benchmark. Set the value of the `primary_zone` parameter of the tenant to `RANDOM`. The value `RANDOM` indicates that the leader of the new table partitions is randomly assigned to one of the three OBServer nodes.

## Manually run the TPC-DS benchmark

### Optimize the test environment

1. Optimize OceanBase Database parameters.

   Run the `obclient -h$host_ip -P$host_port -uroot@sys -A` command in the `sys` tenant. Then execute the following statements:

   ```
   ALTER SYSTEM flush plan cache GLOBAL;
   ALTER system SET enable_sql_audit=false;
   select sleep(5);
   ALTER system SET enable_perf_event=false;
   ALTER system SET syslog_level='PERF';
   alter system set enable_record_trace_log=false;
   ```

2. Optimize tenant parameters.

   Run the `obclient -h$host_ip -P$host_port -u$user@$tenant -p$password -A` command as the test user. Then execute the following statements:

   ```
   SET GLOBAL ob_sql_work_area_percentage = 80;
   SET GLOBAL ob_query_timeout = 36000000000;
   SET GLOBAL ob_trx_timeout = 36000000000;
   SET GLOBAL max_allowed_packet = 67108864;
   # parallel_servers_target = max_cpu * server_num * 8
   SET GLOBAL parallel_servers_target = 624;
   ```

### Set the default table format to `column` for a user tenant

Run the `obclient -h$host_ip -P$host_port -u$user@$tenant -p$password -A` command as the test user. Then execute the following statement:

```
alter system set default_table_store_format = 'column';
```

### Install the TPC-DS tools

1. Download TPC-DS tools. For more information, visit the [TPC-DS Tools Download](https://www.tpc.org/TPC_Documents_Current_Versions/download_programs/tools-download-request5.asp?bm_type=TPC-DS&bm_vers=3.2.0&mode=CURRENT-ONLY) page.

2. Unzip the package and enter the TPC-DS directory.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost ~] $ unzip tpc-h-tool.zip
   [wieck@localhost ~] $ cd TPC-H_Tools_v3.0.0
   ```

3. Replicate the `makefile.suite` file.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost TPC-H_Tools_v3.0.0] $ cd dbgen/
   [wieck@localhost dbgen] $ cp makefile.suite Makefile
   ```

4. Redefine the `CC`, `DATABASE`, `MACHINE`, and `WORKLOAD` parameters in the `makefile.suite` file.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost dbgen] $ vim Makefile
   CC      = gcc
   # Current values for DATABASE are: INFORMIX, DB2, TDAT (Teradata)
   #                                  SQLSERVER, SYBASE, ORACLE, VECTORWISE
   # Current values for MACHINE are: ATT, DOS, HP, IBM, ICL, MVS,
   #                                  SGI, SUN, U2200, VMS, LINUX, WIN32
   # Current values for WORKLOAD are: TPCH
   DATABASE= MYSQL
   MACHINE = LINUX
   WORKLOAD = TPCH
   ```

5. Add new macro definitions to the `tpcd.h` file.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost dbgen] $ vim tpcd.h

   #ifdef MYSQL
   #define GEN_QUERY_PLAN ""
   #define START_TRAN "START TRANSACTION"
   #define END_TRAN "COMMIT"
   #define SET_OUTPUT ""
   #define SET_ROWCOUNT "limit %d;\n"
   #define SET_DBASE "use %s;\n"
   #endif
   ```

6. Compile the file.

   ```
   make
   ```

### Generate data

You can generate 10 GB, 100 GB, or 1 TB of data as needed. The following example shows the command to generate 100 GB of data.

```
./dbgen -s 100
mkdir tpch100
mv *.tbl tpch100
```
### Generate SQL query statements

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>You can perform the following steps to generate SQL query statements and then modify the statements. Alternatively, you can directly use the SQL query statements provided in <a href="https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/tree/master/plugins/tpch/3.1.0/queries">GitHub</a>. To use the SQL query statements provided in GitHub, you must change the value of the <code>cpu_num</code> field in the statements to the actual concurrency. </p>
</main>

1. Copy the `qgen` and `dists.dss` files to the `queries` directory.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost dbgen] $ cp qgen queries
   [wieck@localhost dbgen] $ cp dists.dss queries	
   ```

2. In the `queries` directory, create a `gen.sh` script to generate SQL query statements.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost dbgen] $ cd queries
   [wieck@localhost queries] $ vim gen.sh
   #!/usr/bin/bash
   for i in {1..100}
   do  
   ./qgen -d $i -s 100 > db"$i".sql
   done
   ```

3. Run the `gen.sh` script.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost queries] $ chmod +x  gen.sh
   [wieck@localhost queries] $ ./gen.sh
   ```

4. Modify the SQL query statements.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost queries] $ dos2unix *
   ```

   For more information about the modified SQL query statements, visit [GitHub](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/tree/master/plugins/tpch/3.1.0/queries). You need to change the value of the `cpu_num` field in the SQL statements to the actual concurrency. To ensure the best performance, we recommend that you set the value to the total number of available CPU cores.

   You can run the following command in the `sys` tenant to view the total number of available CPU cores for a tenant:

   ```
   obclient> SELECT sum(cpu_capacity_max) FROM oceanbase.__all_virtual_server;
   ```

   Here is a sample SQL query statement `q1` after modification:

   ```
   SELECT /*+    parallel(96) */   ---Specify the execution concurrency.
   count(*)
   from store_sales
       ,household_demographics
       ,time_dim, store
   where ss_sold_time_sk = time_dim.t_time_sk   
       and ss_hdemo_sk = household_demographics.hd_demo_sk
       and ss_store_sk = s_store_sk
       and time_dim.t_hour = 8    and time_dim.t_minute >= 30    and household_demographics.hd_dep_count = 5    and store.s_store_name = 'ese'order by count(*)
   limit 100;
   ```

### Create tables

Create a schema file named `create_tpch_mysql_table_part.ddl`.

```
SET global NLS_DATE_FORMAT='YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS';
SET global NLS_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT='YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS.FF';
SET global NLS_TIMESTAMP_TZ_FORMAT='YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS.FF TZR TZD';

set global ob_query_timeout=10800000000;
set global ob_trx_timeout=10000000000;

set global ob_sql_work_area_percentage=80;

set global optimizer_use_sql_plan_baselines = true;
set global optimizer_capture_sql_plan_baselines = true;

alter system set ob_enable_batched_multi_statement='true';

set global parallel_servers_target=10000;

create tablegroup if not exists tpcds_tg_catalog_group_range binding true partition by hash partitions 128;
create tablegroup if not exists tpcds_tg_store_group_range_72_hash binding true
partition by range columns 1 subpartition BY hash subpartitions 64
(partition part_1 values less than (2450846),
partition part_2 values less than (2450874),
partition part_3 values less than (2450905),
partition part_4 values less than (2450935),
partition part_5 values less than (2450966),
partition part_6 values less than (2450996),
partition part_7 values less than (2451027),
partition part_8 values less than (2451058),
partition part_9 values less than (2451088),
partition part_10 values less than (2451119),
partition part_11 values less than (2451149),
partition part_12 values less than (2451180),
partition part_13 values less than (2451211),
partition part_14 values less than (2451239),
partition part_15 values less than (2451270),
partition part_16 values less than (2451300),
partition part_17 values less than (2451331),
partition part_18 values less than (2451361),
partition part_19 values less than (2451392),
partition part_20 values less than (2451423),
partition part_21 values less than (2451453),
partition part_22 values less than (2451484),
partition part_23 values less than (2451514),
partition part_24 values less than (2451545),
partition part_25 values less than (2451576),
partition part_26 values less than (2451605),
partition part_27 values less than (2451636),
partition part_28 values less than (2451666),
partition part_29 values less than (2451697),
partition part_30 values less than (2451727),
partition part_31 values less than (2451758),
partition part_32 values less than (2451789),
partition part_33 values less than (2451819),
partition part_34 values less than (2451850),
partition part_35 values less than (2451880),
partition part_36 values less than (2451911),
partition part_37 values less than (2451942),
partition part_38 values less than (2451970),
partition part_39 values less than (2452001),
partition part_40 values less than (2452031),
partition part_41 values less than (2452062),
partition part_42 values less than (2452092),
partition part_43 values less than (2452123),
partition part_44 values less than (2452154),
partition part_45 values less than (2452184),
partition part_46 values less than (2452215),   
partition part_47 values less than (2452245),
partition part_48 values less than (2452276),
partition part_49 values less than (2452307),
partition part_50 values less than (2452335),
partition part_51 values less than (2452366),
partition part_52 values less than (2452396),
partition part_53 values less than (2452427),
partition part_54 values less than (2452457),
partition part_55 values less than (2452488),
partition part_56 values less than (2452519),
partition part_57 values less than (2452549),
partition part_58 values less than (2452580),
partition part_59 values less than (2452610),
partition part_60 values less than (2452641),
partition part_61 values less than (2452672),
partition part_62 values less than (2452700),
partition part_63 values less than (2452731),
partition part_64 values less than (2452761),
partition part_65 values less than (2452792),
partition part_66 values less than (2452822),
partition part_67 values less than (2452853),
partition part_68 values less than (2452884),
partition part_69 values less than (2452914),
partition part_70 values less than (2452945),
partition part_71 values less than (2452975),
partition part_72 values less than (2453006),
partition part_73 values less than (maxvalue));

create table dbgen_version
(
    dv_version                varchar(16)                   ,
    dv_create_date            date                          ,
    dv_create_time            varchar(20)                   ,
    dv_cmdline_args           varchar(200)
);

create table customer_address
(
    ca_address_sk             integer               not null,
    ca_address_id             char(16)              not null,
    ca_street_number          char(10)                      ,
    ca_street_name            varchar(60)                   ,
    ca_street_type            char(15)                      ,
    ca_suite_number           char(10)                      ,
    ca_city                   varchar(60)                   ,
    ca_county                 varchar(30)                   ,
    ca_state                  char(2)                       ,
    ca_zip                    char(10)                      ,
    ca_country                varchar(20)                   ,
    ca_gmt_offset             number(5,2)                  ,
    ca_location_type          char(20)                      ,
    primary key (ca_address_sk)
)partition by hash (ca_address_sk) partitions 128;

create table customer_demographics
(
    cd_demo_sk                integer               not null,
    cd_gender                 char(1)                       ,
    cd_marital_status         char(1)                       ,
    cd_education_status       char(20)                      ,
    cd_purchase_estimate      integer                       ,
    cd_credit_rating          char(10)                      ,
    cd_dep_count              integer                       ,
    cd_dep_employed_count     integer                       ,
    cd_dep_college_count      integer                       ,
    primary key (cd_demo_sk)
)partition by hash (cd_demo_sk) partitions 128;

create table date_dim
(
    d_date_sk                 integer               not null,
    d_date_id                 char(16)              not null,
    d_date                    date                          ,
    d_month_seq               integer                       ,
    d_week_seq                integer                       ,
    d_quarter_seq             integer                       ,
    d_year                    integer                       ,
    d_dow                     integer                       ,
    d_moy                     integer                       ,
    d_dom                     integer                       ,
    d_qoy                     integer                       ,
    d_fy_year                 integer                       ,
    d_fy_quarter_seq          integer                       ,
    d_fy_week_seq             integer                       ,
    d_day_name                char(9)                       ,
    d_quarter_name            char(6)                       ,
    d_holiday                 char(1)                       ,
    d_weekend                 char(1)                       ,
    d_following_holiday       char(1)                       ,
    d_first_dom               integer                       ,
    d_last_dom                integer                       ,
    d_same_day_ly             integer                       ,
    d_same_day_lq             integer                       ,
    d_current_day             char(1)                       ,
    d_current_week            char(1)                       ,
    d_current_month           char(1)                       ,
    d_current_quarter         char(1)                       ,
    d_current_year            char(1)                       ,
    primary key (d_date_sk)
);

create table warehouse
(
    w_warehouse_sk            integer               not null,
    w_warehouse_id            char(16)              not null,
    w_warehouse_name          varchar(20)                   ,
    w_warehouse_sq_ft         integer                       ,
    w_street_number           char(10)                      ,
    w_street_name             varchar(60)                   ,
    w_street_type             char(15)                      ,
    w_suite_number            char(10)                      ,
    w_city                    varchar(60)                   ,
    w_county                  varchar(30)                   ,
    w_state                   char(2)                       ,
    w_zip                     char(10)                      ,
    w_country                 varchar(20)                   ,
    w_gmt_offset              number(5,2)                  ,
    primary key (w_warehouse_sk)
);

create table ship_mode
(
    sm_ship_mode_sk           integer               not null,
    sm_ship_mode_id           char(16)              not null,
    sm_type                   char(30)                      ,
    sm_code                   char(10)                      ,
    sm_carrier                char(20)                      ,
    sm_contract               char(20)                      ,
    primary key (sm_ship_mode_sk)
);

create table time_dim
(
    t_time_sk                 integer               not null,
    t_time_id                 char(16)              not null,
    t_time                    integer                       ,
    t_hour                    integer                       ,
    t_minute                  integer                       ,
    t_second                  integer                       ,
    t_am_pm                   char(2)                       ,
    t_shift                   char(20)                      ,
    t_sub_shift               char(20)                      ,
    t_meal_time               char(20)                      ,
    primary key (t_time_sk)
);

create table reason
(
    r_reason_sk               integer               not null,
    r_reason_id               char(16)              not null,
    r_reason_desc             char(100)                     ,
    primary key (r_reason_sk)
);

create table income_band
(
    ib_income_band_sk         integer               not null,
    ib_lower_bound            integer                       ,
    ib_upper_bound            integer                       ,
    primary key (ib_income_band_sk)
);

create table item
(
    i_item_sk                 integer               not null,
    i_item_id                 char(16)              not null,
    i_rec_start_date          date                          ,
    i_rec_end_date            date                          ,
    i_item_desc               varchar(200)                  ,
    i_current_price           number(7,2)                  ,
    i_wholesale_cost          number(7,2)                  ,
    i_brand_id                integer                       ,
    i_brand                   char(50)                      ,
    i_class_id                integer                       ,
    i_class                   char(50)                      ,
    i_category_id             integer                       ,
    i_category                char(50)                      ,
    i_manufact_id             integer                       ,
    i_manufact                char(50)                      ,
    i_size                    char(20)                      ,
    i_formulation             char(20)                      ,
    i_color                   char(20)                      ,
    i_units                   char(10)                      ,
    i_container               char(10)                      ,
    i_manager_id              integer                       ,
    i_product_name            char(50)                      ,
    primary key (i_item_sk)
);

create table store
(
    s_store_sk                integer               not null,
    s_store_id                char(16)              not null,
    s_rec_start_date          date                          ,
    s_rec_end_date            date                          ,
    s_closed_date_sk          integer                       ,
    s_store_name              varchar(50)                   ,
    s_number_employees        integer                       ,
    s_floor_space             integer                       ,
    s_hours                   char(20)                      ,
    s_manager                 varchar(40)                   ,
    s_market_id               integer                       ,
    s_geography_class         varchar(100)                  ,
    s_market_desc             varchar(100)                  ,
    s_market_manager          varchar(40)                   ,
    s_division_id             integer                       ,
    s_division_name           varchar(50)                   ,
    s_company_id              integer                       ,
    s_company_name            varchar(50)                   ,
    s_street_number           varchar(10)                   ,
    s_street_name             varchar(60)                   ,
    s_street_type             char(15)                      ,
    s_suite_number            char(10)                      ,
    s_city                    varchar(60)                   ,
    s_county                  varchar(30)                   ,
    s_state                   char(2)                       ,
    s_zip                     char(10)                      ,
    s_country                 varchar(20)                   ,
    s_gmt_offset              number(5,2)                  ,
    s_tax_precentage          number(5,2)                  ,
    primary key (s_store_sk)
);

create table call_center
(
    cc_call_center_sk         integer               not null,
    cc_call_center_id         char(16)              not null,
    cc_rec_start_date         date                          ,
    cc_rec_end_date           date                          ,
    cc_closed_date_sk         integer                       ,
    cc_open_date_sk           integer                       ,
    cc_name                   varchar(50)                   ,
    cc_class                  varchar(50)                   ,
    cc_employees              integer                       ,
    cc_sq_ft                  integer                       ,
    cc_hours                  char(20)                      ,
    cc_manager                varchar(40)                   ,
    cc_mkt_id                 integer                       ,
    cc_mkt_class              char(50)                      ,
    cc_mkt_desc               varchar(100)                  ,
    cc_market_manager         varchar(40)                   ,
    cc_division               integer                       ,
    cc_division_name          varchar(50)                   ,
    cc_company                integer                       ,
    cc_company_name           char(50)                      ,
    cc_street_number          char(10)                      ,
    cc_street_name            varchar(60)                   ,
    cc_street_type            char(15)                      ,
    cc_suite_number           char(10)                      ,
    cc_city                   varchar(60)                   ,
    cc_county                 varchar(30)                   ,
    cc_state                  char(2)                       ,
    cc_zip                    char(10)                      ,
    cc_country                varchar(20)                   ,
    cc_gmt_offset             number(5,2)                  ,
    cc_tax_percentage         number(5,2)                  ,
    primary key (cc_call_center_sk)
);

create table customer
(
    c_customer_sk             integer               not null,
    c_customer_id             char(16)              not null,
    c_current_cdemo_sk        integer                       ,
    c_current_hdemo_sk        integer                       ,
    c_current_addr_sk         integer                       ,
    c_first_shipto_date_sk    integer                       ,
    c_first_sales_date_sk     integer                       ,
    c_salutation              char(10)                      ,
    c_first_name              char(20)                      ,
    c_last_name               char(30)                      ,
    c_preferred_cust_flag     char(1)                       ,
    c_birth_day               integer                       ,
    c_birth_month             integer                       ,
    c_birth_year              integer                       ,
    c_birth_country           varchar(20)                   ,
    c_login                   char(13)                      ,
    c_email_address           char(50)                      ,
    c_last_review_date        char(10)                      ,
    primary key (c_customer_sk)
)partition by hash (c_customer_sk) partitions 128;

create table web_site
(
    web_site_sk               integer               not null,
    web_site_id               char(16)              not null,
    web_rec_start_date        date                          ,
    web_rec_end_date          date                          ,
    web_name                  varchar(50)                   ,
    web_open_date_sk          integer                       ,
    web_close_date_sk         integer                       ,
    web_class                 varchar(50)                   ,
    web_manager               varchar(40)                   ,
    web_mkt_id                integer                       ,
    web_mkt_class             varchar(50)                   ,
    web_mkt_desc              varchar(100)                  ,
    web_market_manager        varchar(40)                   ,
    web_company_id            integer                       ,
    web_company_name          char(50)                      ,
    web_street_number         char(10)                      ,
    web_street_name           varchar(60)                   ,
    web_street_type           char(15)                      ,
    web_suite_number          char(10)                      ,
    web_city                  varchar(60)                   ,
    web_county                varchar(30)                   ,
    web_state                 char(2)                       ,
    web_zip                   char(10)                      ,
    web_country               varchar(20)                   ,
    web_gmt_offset            number(5,2)                  ,
    web_tax_percentage        number(5,2)                  ,
    primary key (web_site_sk)
);

create table store_returns
(
    sr_returned_date_sk       integer                       ,
    sr_return_time_sk         integer                       ,
    sr_item_sk                integer               not null,
    sr_customer_sk            integer                       ,
    sr_cdemo_sk               integer                       ,
    sr_hdemo_sk               integer                       ,
    sr_addr_sk                integer                       ,
    sr_store_sk               integer                       ,
    sr_reason_sk              integer                       ,
    sr_ticket_number          integer               not null,
    sr_return_quantity        integer                       ,
    sr_return_amt             number(7,2)                  ,
    sr_return_tax             number(7,2)                  ,
    sr_return_amt_inc_tax     number(7,2)                  ,
    sr_fee                    number(7,2)                  ,
    sr_return_ship_cost       number(7,2)                  ,
    sr_refunded_cash          number(7,2)                  ,
    sr_reversed_charge        number(7,2)                  ,
    sr_store_credit           number(7,2)                  ,
    sr_net_loss               number(7,2)                  
)
partition by range (sr_returned_date_sk)
subpartition BY hash(sr_item_sk) subpartitions 64
(partition part_1 values less than (2450846),
partition part_2 values less than (2450874),
partition part_3 values less than (2450905),
partition part_4 values less than (2450935),
partition part_5 values less than (2450966),
partition part_6 values less than (2450996),
partition part_7 values less than (2451027),
partition part_8 values less than (2451058),
partition part_9 values less than (2451088),
partition part_10 values less than (2451119),
partition part_11 values less than (2451149),
partition part_12 values less than (2451180),
partition part_13 values less than (2451211),
partition part_14 values less than (2451239),
partition part_15 values less than (2451270),
partition part_16 values less than (2451300),
partition part_17 values less than (2451331),
partition part_18 values less than (2451361),
partition part_19 values less than (2451392),
partition part_20 values less than (2451423),
partition part_21 values less than (2451453),
partition part_22 values less than (2451484),
partition part_23 values less than (2451514),
partition part_24 values less than (2451545),
partition part_25 values less than (2451576),
partition part_26 values less than (2451605),
partition part_27 values less than (2451636),
partition part_28 values less than (2451666),
partition part_29 values less than (2451697),
partition part_30 values less than (2451727),
partition part_31 values less than (2451758),
partition part_32 values less than (2451789),
partition part_33 values less than (2451819),
partition part_34 values less than (2451850),
partition part_35 values less than (2451880),
partition part_36 values less than (2451911),
partition part_37 values less than (2451942),
partition part_38 values less than (2451970),
partition part_39 values less than (2452001),
partition part_40 values less than (2452031),
partition part_41 values less than (2452062),
partition part_42 values less than (2452092),
partition part_43 values less than (2452123),
partition part_44 values less than (2452154),
partition part_45 values less than (2452184),
partition part_46 values less than (2452215),   
partition part_47 values less than (2452245),
partition part_48 values less than (2452276),
partition part_49 values less than (2452307),
partition part_50 values less than (2452335),
partition part_51 values less than (2452366),
partition part_52 values less than (2452396),
partition part_53 values less than (2452427),
partition part_54 values less than (2452457),
partition part_55 values less than (2452488),
partition part_56 values less than (2452519),
partition part_57 values less than (2452549),
partition part_58 values less than (2452580),
partition part_59 values less than (2452610),
partition part_60 values less than (2452641),
partition part_61 values less than (2452672),
partition part_62 values less than (2452700),
partition part_63 values less than (2452731),
partition part_64 values less than (2452761),
partition part_65 values less than (2452792),
partition part_66 values less than (2452822),
partition part_67 values less than (2452853),
partition part_68 values less than (2452884),
partition part_69 values less than (2452914),
partition part_70 values less than (2452945),
partition part_71 values less than (2452975),
partition part_72 values less than (2453006),
partition part_73 values less than (maxvalue))
;

create table household_demographics
(
    hd_demo_sk                integer               not null,
    hd_income_band_sk         integer                       ,
    hd_buy_potential          char(15)                      ,
    hd_dep_count              integer                       ,
    hd_vehicle_count          integer                       ,
    primary key (hd_demo_sk)
);

create table web_page
(
    wp_web_page_sk            integer               not null,
    wp_web_page_id            char(16)              not null,
    wp_rec_start_date         date                          ,
    wp_rec_end_date           date                          ,
    wp_creation_date_sk       integer                       ,
    wp_access_date_sk         integer                       ,
    wp_autogen_flag           char(1)                       ,
    wp_customer_sk            integer                       ,
    wp_url                    varchar(100)                  ,
    wp_type                   char(50)                      ,
    wp_char_count             integer                       ,
    wp_link_count             integer                       ,
    wp_image_count            integer                       ,
    wp_max_ad_count           integer                       ,
    primary key (wp_web_page_sk)
);

create table promotion
(
    p_promo_sk                integer               not null,
    p_promo_id                char(16)              not null,
    p_start_date_sk           integer                       ,
    p_end_date_sk             integer                       ,
    p_item_sk                 integer                       ,
    p_cost                    number(15,2)                 ,
    p_response_target         integer                       ,
    p_promo_name              char(50)                      ,
    p_channel_dmail           char(1)                       ,
    p_channel_email           char(1)                       ,
    p_channel_catalog         char(1)                       ,
    p_channel_tv              char(1)                       ,
    p_channel_radio           char(1)                       ,
    p_channel_press           char(1)                       ,
    p_channel_event           char(1)                       ,
    p_channel_demo            char(1)                       ,
    p_channel_details         varchar(100)                  ,
    p_purpose                 char(15)                      ,
    p_discount_active         char(1)                       ,
    primary key (p_promo_sk)
);

create table catalog_page
(
    cp_catalog_page_sk        integer               not null,
    cp_catalog_page_id        char(16)              not null,
    cp_start_date_sk          integer                       ,
    cp_end_date_sk            integer                       ,
    cp_department             varchar(50)                   ,
    cp_catalog_number         integer                       ,
    cp_catalog_page_number    integer                       ,
    cp_description            varchar(100)                  ,
    cp_type                   varchar(100)                  ,
    primary key (cp_catalog_page_sk)
);

create table inventory
(
    inv_date_sk               integer               not null,
    inv_item_sk               integer               not null,
    inv_warehouse_sk          integer               not null,
    inv_quantity_on_hand      integer                       
)
partition by range (inv_date_sk)
subpartition BY hash(inv_item_sk) subpartitions 64
(partition part_1 values less than (2450846),
partition part_2 values less than (2450874),
partition part_3 values less than (2450905),
partition part_4 values less than (2450935),
partition part_5 values less than (2450966),
partition part_6 values less than (2450996),
partition part_7 values less than (2451027),
partition part_8 values less than (2451058),
partition part_9 values less than (2451088),
partition part_10 values less than (2451119),
partition part_11 values less than (2451149),
partition part_12 values less than (2451180),
partition part_13 values less than (2451211),
partition part_14 values less than (2451239),
partition part_15 values less than (2451270),
partition part_16 values less than (2451300),
partition part_17 values less than (2451331),
partition part_18 values less than (2451361),
partition part_19 values less than (2451392),
partition part_20 values less than (2451423),
partition part_21 values less than (2451453),
partition part_22 values less than (2451484),
partition part_23 values less than (2451514),
partition part_24 values less than (2451545),
partition part_25 values less than (2451576),
partition part_26 values less than (2451605),
partition part_27 values less than (2451636),
partition part_28 values less than (2451666),
partition part_29 values less than (2451697),
partition part_30 values less than (2451727),
partition part_31 values less than (2451758),
partition part_32 values less than (2451789),
partition part_33 values less than (2451819),
partition part_34 values less than (2451850),
partition part_35 values less than (2451880),
partition part_36 values less than (2451911),
partition part_37 values less than (2451942),
partition part_38 values less than (2451970),
partition part_39 values less than (2452001),
partition part_40 values less than (2452031),
partition part_41 values less than (2452062),
partition part_42 values less than (2452092),
partition part_43 values less than (2452123),
partition part_44 values less than (2452154),
partition part_45 values less than (2452184),
partition part_46 values less than (2452215),   
partition part_47 values less than (2452245),
partition part_48 values less than (2452276),
partition part_49 values less than (2452307),
partition part_50 values less than (2452335),
partition part_51 values less than (2452366),
partition part_52 values less than (2452396),
partition part_53 values less than (2452427),
partition part_54 values less than (2452457),
partition part_55 values less than (2452488),
partition part_56 values less than (2452519),
partition part_57 values less than (2452549),
partition part_58 values less than (2452580),
partition part_59 values less than (2452610),
partition part_60 values less than (2452641),
partition part_61 values less than (2452672),
partition part_62 values less than (2452700),
partition part_63 values less than (2452731),
partition part_64 values less than (2452761),
partition part_65 values less than (2452792),
partition part_66 values less than (2452822),
partition part_67 values less than (2452853),
partition part_68 values less than (2452884),
partition part_69 values less than (2452914),
partition part_70 values less than (2452945),
partition part_71 values less than (2452975),
partition part_72 values less than (2453006),
partition part_73 values less than (maxvalue));

create table catalog_returns
(
    cr_returned_date_sk       integer                       ,
    cr_returned_time_sk       integer                       ,
    cr_item_sk                integer               not null,
    cr_refunded_customer_sk   integer                       ,
    cr_refunded_cdemo_sk      integer                       ,
    cr_refunded_hdemo_sk      integer                       ,
    cr_refunded_addr_sk       integer                       ,
    cr_returning_customer_sk  integer                       ,
    cr_returning_cdemo_sk     integer                       ,
    cr_returning_hdemo_sk     integer                       ,
    cr_returning_addr_sk      integer                       ,
    cr_call_center_sk         integer                       ,
    cr_catalog_page_sk        integer                       ,
    cr_ship_mode_sk           integer                       ,
    cr_warehouse_sk           integer                       ,
    cr_reason_sk              integer                       ,
    cr_order_number           integer               not null,
    cr_return_quantity        integer                       ,
    cr_return_amount          number(7,2)                  ,
    cr_return_tax             number(7,2)                  ,
    cr_return_amt_inc_tax     number(7,2)                  ,
    cr_fee                    number(7,2)                  ,
    cr_return_ship_cost       number(7,2)                  ,
    cr_refunded_cash          number(7,2)                  ,
    cr_reversed_charge        number(7,2)                  ,
    cr_store_credit           number(7,2)                  ,
    cr_net_loss               number(7,2)                  ,
    primary key (cr_item_sk, cr_order_number)
)
tablegroup = tpcds_tg_catalog_group_range
partition by hash(cr_item_sk) partitions 128
;

create table web_returns
(
    wr_returned_date_sk       integer                       ,
    wr_returned_time_sk       integer                       ,
    wr_item_sk                integer               not null,
    wr_refunded_customer_sk   integer                       ,
    wr_refunded_cdemo_sk      integer                       ,
    wr_refunded_hdemo_sk      integer                       ,
    wr_refunded_addr_sk       integer                       ,
    wr_returning_customer_sk  integer                       ,
    wr_returning_cdemo_sk     integer                       ,
    wr_returning_hdemo_sk     integer                       ,
    wr_returning_addr_sk      integer                       ,
    wr_web_page_sk            integer                       ,
    wr_reason_sk              integer                       ,
    wr_order_number           integer               not null,
    wr_return_quantity        integer                       ,
    wr_return_amt             number(7,2)                  ,
    wr_return_tax             number(7,2)                  ,
    wr_return_amt_inc_tax     number(7,2)                  ,
    wr_fee                    number(7,2)                  ,
    wr_return_ship_cost       number(7,2)                  ,
    wr_refunded_cash          number(7,2)                  ,
    wr_reversed_charge        number(7,2)                  ,
    wr_account_credit         number(7,2)                  ,
    wr_net_loss               number(7,2)                  
)
partition by range(wr_returned_date_sk)
subpartition BY hash(wr_item_sk) subpartitions 64
(partition part_1 values less than (2450846),
partition part_2 values less than (2450874),
partition part_3 values less than (2450905),
partition part_4 values less than (2450935),
partition part_5 values less than (2450966),
partition part_6 values less than (2450996),
partition part_7 values less than (2451027),
partition part_8 values less than (2451058),
partition part_9 values less than (2451088),
partition part_10 values less than (2451119),
partition part_11 values less than (2451149),
partition part_12 values less than (2451180),
partition part_13 values less than (2451211),
partition part_14 values less than (2451239),
partition part_15 values less than (2451270),
partition part_16 values less than (2451300),
partition part_17 values less than (2451331),
partition part_18 values less than (2451361),
partition part_19 values less than (2451392),
partition part_20 values less than (2451423),
partition part_21 values less than (2451453),
partition part_22 values less than (2451484),
partition part_23 values less than (2451514),
partition part_24 values less than (2451545),
partition part_25 values less than (2451576),
partition part_26 values less than (2451605),
partition part_27 values less than (2451636),
partition part_28 values less than (2451666),
partition part_29 values less than (2451697),
partition part_30 values less than (2451727),
partition part_31 values less than (2451758),
partition part_32 values less than (2451789),
partition part_33 values less than (2451819),
partition part_34 values less than (2451850),
partition part_35 values less than (2451880),
partition part_36 values less than (2451911),
partition part_37 values less than (2451942),
partition part_38 values less than (2451970),
partition part_39 values less than (2452001),
partition part_40 values less than (2452031),
partition part_41 values less than (2452062),
partition part_42 values less than (2452092),
partition part_43 values less than (2452123),
partition part_44 values less than (2452154),
partition part_45 values less than (2452184),
partition part_46 values less than (2452215),   
partition part_47 values less than (2452245),
partition part_48 values less than (2452276),
partition part_49 values less than (2452307),
partition part_50 values less than (2452335),
partition part_51 values less than (2452366),
partition part_52 values less than (2452396),
partition part_53 values less than (2452427),
partition part_54 values less than (2452457),
partition part_55 values less than (2452488),
partition part_56 values less than (2452519),
partition part_57 values less than (2452549),
partition part_58 values less than (2452580),
partition part_59 values less than (2452610),
partition part_60 values less than (2452641),
partition part_61 values less than (2452672),
partition part_62 values less than (2452700),
partition part_63 values less than (2452731),
partition part_64 values less than (2452761),
partition part_65 values less than (2452792),
partition part_66 values less than (2452822),
partition part_67 values less than (2452853),
partition part_68 values less than (2452884),
partition part_69 values less than (2452914),
partition part_70 values less than (2452945),
partition part_71 values less than (2452975),
partition part_72 values less than (2453006),
partition part_73 values less than (maxvalue))
;

create table web_sales
(
    ws_sold_date_sk           integer                       ,
    ws_sold_time_sk           integer                       ,
    ws_ship_date_sk           integer                       ,
    ws_item_sk                integer               not null,
    ws_bill_customer_sk       integer                       ,
    ws_bill_cdemo_sk          integer                       ,
    ws_bill_hdemo_sk          integer                       ,
    ws_bill_addr_sk           integer                       ,
    ws_ship_customer_sk       integer                       ,
    ws_ship_cdemo_sk          integer                       ,
    ws_ship_hdemo_sk          integer                       ,
    ws_ship_addr_sk           integer                       ,
    ws_web_page_sk            integer                       ,
    ws_web_site_sk            integer                       ,
    ws_ship_mode_sk           integer                       ,
    ws_warehouse_sk           integer                       ,
    ws_promo_sk               integer                       ,
    ws_order_number           integer               not null,
    ws_quantity               integer                       ,
    ws_wholesale_cost         number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_list_price             number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_sales_price            number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_ext_discount_amt       number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_ext_sales_price        number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_ext_wholesale_cost     number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_ext_list_price         number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_ext_tax                number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_coupon_amt             number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_ext_ship_cost          number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_net_paid               number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_net_paid_inc_tax       number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_net_paid_inc_ship      number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_net_paid_inc_ship_tax  number(7,2)                  ,
    ws_net_profit             number(7,2)                  
)
partition by range (ws_sold_date_sk)
subpartition BY hash(ws_item_sk) subpartitions 64
(partition part_1 values less than (2450846),
partition part_2 values less than (2450874),
partition part_3 values less than (2450905),
partition part_4 values less than (2450935),
partition part_5 values less than (2450966),
partition part_6 values less than (2450996),
partition part_7 values less than (2451027),
partition part_8 values less than (2451058),
partition part_9 values less than (2451088),
partition part_10 values less than (2451119),
partition part_11 values less than (2451149),
partition part_12 values less than (2451180),
partition part_13 values less than (2451211),
partition part_14 values less than (2451239),
partition part_15 values less than (2451270),
partition part_16 values less than (2451300),
partition part_17 values less than (2451331),
partition part_18 values less than (2451361),
partition part_19 values less than (2451392),
partition part_20 values less than (2451423),
partition part_21 values less than (2451453),
partition part_22 values less than (2451484),
partition part_23 values less than (2451514),
partition part_24 values less than (2451545),
partition part_25 values less than (2451576),
partition part_26 values less than (2451605),
partition part_27 values less than (2451636),
partition part_28 values less than (2451666),
partition part_29 values less than (2451697),
partition part_30 values less than (2451727),
partition part_31 values less than (2451758),
partition part_32 values less than (2451789),
partition part_33 values less than (2451819),
partition part_34 values less than (2451850),
partition part_35 values less than (2451880),
partition part_36 values less than (2451911),
partition part_37 values less than (2451942),
partition part_38 values less than (2451970),
partition part_39 values less than (2452001),
partition part_40 values less than (2452031),
partition part_41 values less than (2452062),
partition part_42 values less than (2452092),
partition part_43 values less than (2452123),
partition part_44 values less than (2452154),
partition part_45 values less than (2452184),
partition part_46 values less than (2452215),   
partition part_47 values less than (2452245),
partition part_48 values less than (2452276),
partition part_49 values less than (2452307),
partition part_50 values less than (2452335),
partition part_51 values less than (2452366),
partition part_52 values less than (2452396),
partition part_53 values less than (2452427),
partition part_54 values less than (2452457),
partition part_55 values less than (2452488),
partition part_56 values less than (2452519),
partition part_57 values less than (2452549),
partition part_58 values less than (2452580),
partition part_59 values less than (2452610),
partition part_60 values less than (2452641),
partition part_61 values less than (2452672),
partition part_62 values less than (2452700),
partition part_63 values less than (2452731),
partition part_64 values less than (2452761),
partition part_65 values less than (2452792),
partition part_66 values less than (2452822),
partition part_67 values less than (2452853),
partition part_68 values less than (2452884),
partition part_69 values less than (2452914),
partition part_70 values less than (2452945),
partition part_71 values less than (2452975),
partition part_72 values less than (2453006),
partition part_73 values less than (maxvalue))
;

create table catalog_sales
(
    cs_sold_date_sk           integer                       ,
    cs_sold_time_sk           integer                       ,
    cs_ship_date_sk           integer                       ,
    cs_bill_customer_sk       integer                       ,
    cs_bill_cdemo_sk          integer                       ,
    cs_bill_hdemo_sk          integer                       ,
    cs_bill_addr_sk           integer                       ,
    cs_ship_customer_sk       integer                       ,
    cs_ship_cdemo_sk          integer                       ,
    cs_ship_hdemo_sk          integer                       ,
    cs_ship_addr_sk           integer                       ,
    cs_call_center_sk         integer                       ,
    cs_catalog_page_sk        integer                       ,
    cs_ship_mode_sk           integer                       ,
    cs_warehouse_sk           integer                       ,
    cs_item_sk                integer               not null,
    cs_promo_sk               integer                       ,
    cs_order_number           integer               not null,
    cs_quantity               integer                       ,
    cs_wholesale_cost         number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_list_price             number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_sales_price            number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_ext_discount_amt       number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_ext_sales_price        number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_ext_wholesale_cost     number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_ext_list_price         number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_ext_tax                number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_coupon_amt             number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_ext_ship_cost          number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_net_paid               number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_net_paid_inc_tax       number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_net_paid_inc_ship      number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_net_paid_inc_ship_tax  number(7,2)                  ,
    cs_net_profit             number(7,2)                  
)
partition by range (cs_sold_date_sk)
subpartition BY hash(cs_item_sk) subpartitions 64
(partition part_1 values less than (2450846),
partition part_2 values less than (2450874),
partition part_3 values less than (2450905),
partition part_4 values less than (2450935),
partition part_5 values less than (2450966),
partition part_6 values less than (2450996),
partition part_7 values less than (2451027),
partition part_8 values less than (2451058),
partition part_9 values less than (2451088),
partition part_10 values less than (2451119),
partition part_11 values less than (2451149),
partition part_12 values less than (2451180),
partition part_13 values less than (2451211),
partition part_14 values less than (2451239),
partition part_15 values less than (2451270),
partition part_16 values less than (2451300),
partition part_17 values less than (2451331),
partition part_18 values less than (2451361),
partition part_19 values less than (2451392),
partition part_20 values less than (2451423),
partition part_21 values less than (2451453),
partition part_22 values less than (2451484),
partition part_23 values less than (2451514),
partition part_24 values less than (2451545),
partition part_25 values less than (2451576),
partition part_26 values less than (2451605),
partition part_27 values less than (2451636),
partition part_28 values less than (2451666),
partition part_29 values less than (2451697),
partition part_30 values less than (2451727),
partition part_31 values less than (2451758),
partition part_32 values less than (2451789),
partition part_33 values less than (2451819),
partition part_34 values less than (2451850),
partition part_35 values less than (2451880),
partition part_36 values less than (2451911),
partition part_37 values less than (2451942),
partition part_38 values less than (2451970),
partition part_39 values less than (2452001),
partition part_40 values less than (2452031),
partition part_41 values less than (2452062),
partition part_42 values less than (2452092),
partition part_43 values less than (2452123),
partition part_44 values less than (2452154),
partition part_45 values less than (2452184),
partition part_46 values less than (2452215),   
partition part_47 values less than (2452245),
partition part_48 values less than (2452276),
partition part_49 values less than (2452307),
partition part_50 values less than (2452335),
partition part_51 values less than (2452366),
partition part_52 values less than (2452396),
partition part_53 values less than (2452427),
partition part_54 values less than (2452457),
partition part_55 values less than (2452488),
partition part_56 values less than (2452519),
partition part_57 values less than (2452549),
partition part_58 values less than (2452580),
partition part_59 values less than (2452610),
partition part_60 values less than (2452641),
partition part_61 values less than (2452672),
partition part_62 values less than (2452700),
partition part_63 values less than (2452731),
partition part_64 values less than (2452761),
partition part_65 values less than (2452792),
partition part_66 values less than (2452822),
partition part_67 values less than (2452853),
partition part_68 values less than (2452884),
partition part_69 values less than (2452914),
partition part_70 values less than (2452945),
partition part_71 values less than (2452975),
partition part_72 values less than (2453006),
partition part_73 values less than (maxvalue));

create table store_sales
(
    ss_sold_date_sk           integer                       ,
    ss_sold_time_sk           integer                       ,
    ss_item_sk                integer               not null,
    ss_customer_sk            integer                       ,
    ss_cdemo_sk               integer                       ,
    ss_hdemo_sk               integer                       ,
    ss_addr_sk                integer                       ,
    ss_store_sk               integer                       ,
    ss_promo_sk               integer                       ,
    ss_ticket_number          integer               not null,
    ss_quantity               integer                       ,
    ss_wholesale_cost         number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_list_price             number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_sales_price            number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_ext_discount_amt       number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_ext_sales_price        number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_ext_wholesale_cost     number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_ext_list_price         number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_ext_tax                number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_coupon_amt             number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_net_paid               number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_net_paid_inc_tax       number(7,2)                  ,
    ss_net_profit             number(7,2)                  
)
partition by range(ss_sold_date_sk)
subpartition BY hash(ss_item_sk) subpartitions 64
(partition part_1 values less than (2450846),
partition part_2 values less than (2450874),
partition part_3 values less than (2450905),
partition part_4 values less than (2450935),
partition part_5 values less than (2450966),
partition part_6 values less than (2450996),
partition part_7 values less than (2451027),
partition part_8 values less than (2451058),
partition part_9 values less than (2451088),
partition part_10 values less than (2451119),
partition part_11 values less than (2451149),
partition part_12 values less than (2451180),
partition part_13 values less than (2451211),
partition part_14 values less than (2451239),
partition part_15 values less than (2451270),
partition part_16 values less than (2451300),
partition part_17 values less than (2451331),
partition part_18 values less than (2451361),
partition part_19 values less than (2451392),
partition part_20 values less than (2451423),
partition part_21 values less than (2451453),
partition part_22 values less than (2451484),
partition part_23 values less than (2451514),
partition part_24 values less than (2451545),
partition part_25 values less than (2451576),
partition part_26 values less than (2451605),
partition part_27 values less than (2451636),
partition part_28 values less than (2451666),
partition part_29 values less than (2451697),
partition part_30 values less than (2451727),
partition part_31 values less than (2451758),
partition part_32 values less than (2451789),
partition part_33 values less than (2451819),
partition part_34 values less than (2451850),
partition part_35 values less than (2451880),
partition part_36 values less than (2451911),
partition part_37 values less than (2451942),
partition part_38 values less than (2451970),
partition part_39 values less than (2452001),
partition part_40 values less than (2452031),
partition part_41 values less than (2452062),
partition part_42 values less than (2452092),
partition part_43 values less than (2452123),
partition part_44 values less than (2452154),
partition part_45 values less than (2452184),
partition part_46 values less than (2452215),   
partition part_47 values less than (2452245),
partition part_48 values less than (2452276),
partition part_49 values less than (2452307),
partition part_50 values less than (2452335),
partition part_51 values less than (2452366),
partition part_52 values less than (2452396),
partition part_53 values less than (2452427),
partition part_54 values less than (2452457),
partition part_55 values less than (2452488),
partition part_56 values less than (2452519),
partition part_57 values less than (2452549),
partition part_58 values less than (2452580),
partition part_59 values less than (2452610),
partition part_60 values less than (2452641),
partition part_61 values less than (2452672),
partition part_62 values less than (2452700),
partition part_63 values less than (2452731),
partition part_64 values less than (2452761),
partition part_65 values less than (2452792),
partition part_66 values less than (2452822),
partition part_67 values less than (2452853),
partition part_68 values less than (2452884),
partition part_69 values less than (2452914),
partition part_70 values less than (2452945),
partition part_71 values less than (2452975),
partition part_72 values less than (2453006),
partition part_73 values less than (maxvalue));
```

### Load data

You can write scripts based on the data and SQL query statements generated in the preceding steps. As an example, you can take the following steps to load data:

1. Create a directory for loading scripts.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost dbgen] $ mkdir load
   [wieck@localhost dbgen] $ cd load
   [wieck@localhost load] $ cp xx/create_tpch_mysql_table_part.ddl ./
   ```

2. Create the `load.py` script.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost load] $ vim load.py

   #!/usr/bin/env python
   #-*- encoding:utf-8 -*-
   import os
   import sys
   import time
   import commands
   hostname='$host_ip'  # Notice! ! You need to specify the IP address of an OBServer node, such as OBServer node A.
   port='$host_port'               # The port number of OBServer node A.
   tenant='$tenant_name'              # The tenant name.
   user='$user'               # The username.
   password='$password'           # The password.
   data_path='$path'         # Notice! ! You need to specify the directory of tbl on OBServer node A.
   db_name='$db_name'             # The database name.
   # Create a table.
   cmd_str='obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -D%s < create_tpch_mysql_table_part.ddl'%(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str='obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s  -D%s -e "show tables;" '%(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/dbgen_version.dat' into table customer fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/customer_address.dat' into table lineitem fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/customer_demographics.dat' into table nation fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/date_dim.dat' into table orders fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s   -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/warehouse.dat' into table partsupp fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/ship_mode.dat' into table part fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/time_dim.dat' into table region fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/reason.dat' into table supplier fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/income_band.dat' into table customer fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/item.dat' into table lineitem fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/store.dat' into table nation fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/call_center.dat' into table orders fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s   -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/customer.dat' into table partsupp fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/web_site.dat' into table part fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/store_returns.dat' into table region fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/household_demographics.dat' into table supplier fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/web_page.dat' into table customer fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/promotion.dat' into table lineitem fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/catalog_page.dat' into table nation fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/inventory.dat' into table orders fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s   -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/catalog_returns.dat' into table partsupp fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/web_returns.dat' into table part fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/web_sales.dat' into table region fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/catalog_sales.dat' into table supplier fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   cmd_str=""" obclient -h%s -P%s -u%s@%s -p%s -c  -D%s -e "load data /*+ parallel(80) */ infile '%s/store_sales.dat' into table supplier fields terminated by '|';" """ %(hostname,port,user,tenant,password,db_name,data_path)
   result = commands.getstatusoutput(cmd_str)
   print result
   ```

3. Load the data.

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>To load data, you need to install the OBClient. </p>
    </main>

   ```
   [wieck@localhost load] $ python load.py
   ```

4. Perform a major compaction.

   Log on to the test tenant and perform a major compaction.

   ```
   obclient > ALTER SYSTEM SET undo_retention = 100;
   obclient > ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE;
   ```

5. Check whether the major compaction is complete.

   ```
   SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_ZONE_MAJOR_COMPACTION\G
   ```

   The return result is as follows:

   ```
   *************************** 1. row ***************************
               ZONE: zone1
     BROADCAST_SCN: 1716172011046213913
           LAST_SCN: 1716172011046213913
   LAST_FINISH_TIME: 2024-05-20 10:35:07.829496
         START_TIME: 2024-05-20 10:26:51.579881
             STATUS: IDLE
   1 row in set
   ```

   If the value of `STATUS` is `IDLE` and the values of `BROADCAST_SCN` and `LAST_SCN` are equal, the major compaction is complete.

6. Manually collect statistics.

   Run the `obclient -h$host_ip -P$host_port -u$user@$tenant -p$password -A -D$database` command as the test user. Then execute the following statement:

   ```
   call dbms_stats.gather_schema_stats('$db_name',degree=>64);
   ```

### Run the test

You can write scripts based on the data and SQL query statements generated in the preceding steps. As an example, you can take the following steps to perform the test:

1. Write the `tpch.sh` script in the `queries` directory.

   ```
   [wieck@localhost queries] $ vim tpch.sh

     #!/bin/bash
     TPCH_TEST="obclient -h $host_ip -P $host_port -utpch_100g_part@tpch_mysql  -D tpch_100g_part  -ptest -c"
     # Run a warmup.
     for i in {1..22}
     do
         sql1="source db${i}.sql"
         echo $sql1| $TPCH_TEST >db${i}.log  || ret=1
     done
     # Run the formal test.
     for i in {1..22}
     do
         starttime=`date +%s%N`
         echo `date  '+[%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S]'` "BEGIN Q${i}"
         sql1="source db${i}.sql"
         echo $sql1| $TPCH_TEST >db${i}.log  || ret=1
         stoptime=`date +%s%N`
         costtime=`echo $stoptime $starttime | awk '{printf "%0.2f\n", ($1 - $2) / 1000000000}'`
         echo `date  '+[%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S]'` "END,COST ${costtime}s"
     done
   ```

2. Run the test script.

   ```
   sh tpch.sh
   ```
