|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# obproxy thread exhaustion

The number of obproxy threads is 8,192 by default. If the number of connections requested by applications exceeds this value, the excess connections will be denied. This topic provides information on how to handle obproxy thread exhaustion in emergency situations.

## Emergency handling procedure

obproxy thread exhaustion generally does not occur. If you encounter this issue, you can address it based on the following two scenarios:

* obproxy nodes being centrally deployed in a cluster

   If you are using a centrally deployed obproxy cluster and you are facing obproxy thread exhaustion, it is recommended to expand this cluster by adding new obproxy nodes through OCP.

   1. Log in to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console.

   2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **OBProxy**.

   3. In the upper-right corner of the page, click **Create OBProxy Cluster**.

   4. On the **Create OBProxy Cluster** page, specify the required parameters.

   5. Click **Submit**.

   For more information, see [Add an ODP](../../../../700.reference/1200.database-proxy/200.obproxy-management/300.manage-obproxy/100.add-obproxy.md).

* Single-node deployment of obproxy or an unscalable obproxy cluster

   If you are using a single-node deployment of obproxy or using an unscalable obproxy cluster, you can consider temporarily increasing the maximum allowable connection threads. Modify the obproxy cluster configuration parameter directly in the OCP console by referring to OCP User Guide.
