|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Tenant request queue backlog

In an OceanBase cluster, threads and coroutines are used to allocate and schedule CPU resources across multiple tenants. 
When the request volume from tenants increases or complex query processing occurs, insufficient CPU resources can result in a backlog of queued requests, ultimately leading to longer SQL response time and slower processing speed. This topic provides information on how to handle this issue in emergency situations.

## Emergency handling procedure

1. Expand CPU resources for the tenants or switch the leader role to a server with lower load.

   To expand CPU resources for a tenant, you are advised to modify the `UNIT_CONFIG` and `UNIT_NUM` parameters through OCP. If you use the command line, perform the following sub-steps:

   i. Execute the following SQL statement to confirm the `unit_config` used by the current tenant.

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
        <h4>Notice</h4>
        <p>Multiple replicas may use different resource pools, so you need to modify the configurations of each replica separately.</p>
      </main>
    
    ```sql
    SELECT a.tenant_name,a.tenant_id,b.name unit_config,c.name pool_name,b.max_cpu,b.min_cpu
    FROM
    OCEANBASE.DBA_OB_TENANTS a,
    OCEANBASE.DBA_OB_UNIT_CONFIGS b,
    OCEANBASE.DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS c
    WHERE a.tenant_id=c.tenant_id
    AND b.unit_config_id = c.unit_config_id
    ORDER BY a.tenant_id desc;
    ```

    ii. Execute the following SQL statement based on the obtained configurations.
    
      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
        <h4>Notice</h4>
        <p>As of OceanBase Database V3.2, you can modify only the CPU and memory configurations of a <code>resource unit</code>. The modifications to other I/O configurations, such as disk and IOPS, are temporarily ineffective and can be left as default. </p>
      </main>

    ```sql
    ALTER RESOURCE UNIT unit_config_name min_cpu=2,max_cpu=2,memory_size ='2G',max_iops=10000,min_iops=10000;
    ```

2. For tenants with multiple units, you can scale out the cluster by adding OBServer nodes to the zone and increasing `unit_num`.

3. If you find execution time spikes for an SQL statement, perform throttling after confirming with business staff.

   1. Identify SQL statements with execution time spikes.

      You can use the SQL Diagnostics feature in OCP. Filter SQL statements by the number of execution times to view the execution history of an SQL statement in a specified period.

   2. Perform SQL throttling.

      Add the `max_concurrent` hint to the SQL statement's execution plan to limit the SQL query concurrency. Here is an example:

      ```sql
      CREATE OUTLINE outline_name ON sql_id USING HINT /*+max_concurrent(1)*/;
      ```
