# Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using the mysql client

You can use the mysql client to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database. This topic will guide you through the necessary steps and provide an example to help you get started.

## Prerequisites

Before you connect to OceanBase Database by using the mysql client, make sure that the following conditions are met:

* The mysql client is installed locally. OceanBase Database supports mysql clients of the following versions: 5.5, 5.6, and 5.7. 

* The environment variable `PATH` contains the directory where the mysql client is located. 

* The client is in the allowlist of the tenant. For more information about how to query and configure a tenant allowlist, see [Set and view the tenant allowlist](../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/10.configure-and-view-the-tenant-whitelist.md). 

## Procedure

1. Open a command shell. 

2. Run the MySQL command to connect to the MySQL tenant. 

   * To connect to the MySQL tenant by using an OceanBase Data Proxy (ODP), run the following command:

      ```sql
      $mysql -h10.10.10.1 -uusername@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -ppassword -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      $mysql -h10.10.10.1 -uobdemo:obmysql:username -P2883 -ppassword -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      Parameters:

      * `-h`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an ODP. 

      * `-u`: the tenant account. Two account formats are supported: `Username@Tenant name#Cluster name` and `Cluster name:Tenant name:Username`. You can connect only to a MySQL tenant by using the mysql client. The default username of the administrator of a MySQL tenant is `root`. 

      * `-P`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is also the listening port of the ODP. Default value: `2883`, which can be customized when ODP is deployed. 

      * `-c`: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of MySQL. 

      * `-A`: specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to a MySQL tenant. 

      * `oceanbase`: the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database. 

      Example:

      ```sql
      $mysql -h10.10.10.1 -u******@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -p**1*** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      $mysql -h10.10.10.1 -uobdemo:obmysql:****** -P2883 -p**1*** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

   * To directly connect to the MySQL tenant, run the following command:

      ```sql
      $mysql -h10.10.10.1 -uusername@obmysql -P2881 -ppassword -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      Parameters:

      * `-h`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an OBServer. 

      * `-u`: the tenant account in the `Username@Tenant name` format. You can connect only to a MySQL tenant by using the mysql client. The default username of the administrator of a MySQL tenant is `root`. 

      * `-P`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. Default value: `2881`, which can be customized when OceanBase Database is deployed. 

      * `-p`: the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible. 

      * `-c`: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of MySQL. 

      * `-A`: specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to a MySQL tenant. 

      * `oceanbase`: the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database. 

      * When you use the direct connection method, make sure that the tenant resources are distributed on the OBServer node you specified. Otherwise, you cannot connect to the tenant by using this OBServer node. 

      Example:

      ```sql
      $mysql -h10.10.10.1 -u******@obmysql -P2881 -p**1*** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

3. After the connection is established, the following command-line prompt is displayed by default: 

   ```sql
   MySQL [oceanbase]>
   ```

4. To exit the MySQL command line, enter `exit` and press **Enter**, or press the shortcut key **Ctrl** + **D**. 

## Connection example

The following sample code shows how to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database from the mysql client: 

```sql
$mysql -h10.10.10.1 -u******@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
Welcome to the MariaDB monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 5751
Server version: 5.6.25 OceanBase 4.0.0 (r10100032022041510-a09d3134c10665f03fd56d7f8bdd413b2b771977) (Built Apr 15 2022 02:16:22)
<...>
Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

MySQL [oceanbase]> SHOW DATABASES;
+--------------------+
| Database           |
+--------------------+
| oceanbase          |
| information_schema |
| mysql              |
| test               |
+--------------------+
4 rows in set

MySQL [oceanbase]> exit
Bye
```

## More information

If errors occur when you connect to OceanBase Database by using the mysql client, we recommend that you refer to the official MySQL documentation. 
