# Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient

This topic describes how to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient. 

## Prerequisites

* The OBClient application is downloaded and installed. If OBClient is not downloaded, download the required version from [OceanBase Download Center](https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter). 

* Before you connect to a tenant from a client, make sure that the client is in the allowlist of the tenant. For more information about how to query and configure a tenant allowlist, see [Set and view the tenant allowlist](../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/10.configure-and-view-the-tenant-whitelist.md). 

## Procedure

1. Open a command shell. 

2. Connect to OceanBase Database. 

   You can connect to OceanBase Database directly or by using an OceanBase Data Proxy (ODP). 

   * To connect to the MySQL tenant by using an ODP, run the following command:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uusername@obtenant#obdemo -P2883 -ppassword -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uobdemo:obtenant:username -P2883 -ppassword -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      Parameters:

      * `-h`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an ODP. 

      * `-u`: the tenant account. Two account formats are supported: `Username@Tenant name#Cluster name` and `Cluster name:Tenant name:Username`. The default username of the administrator of the MySQL tenant is `root`. 

      * `-P`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is also the listening port of the ODP. Default value: `2883`, which can be customized when ODP is deployed. 

      * `-c`: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of OBClient. 

      * `-A`: specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to a MySQL tenant. 

      * `oceanbase`: the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database. 

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u*****@obtenant#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uobdemo:obtenant:***** -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

   * To directly connect to the MySQL tenant, run the following command:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uusername@obtenant -P2881 -ppassword -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      Parameters:

      * `-h`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an OBServer. 

      * `-u`: the tenant account in the `Username@Tenant name` format. The default username of the administrator of the MySQL tenant is `root`. 

      * `-P`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. Default value: `2881`, which can be customized when OceanBase Database is deployed. 

      * `-p`: the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible. 

      * `-c`: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of OBClient. 

      * `-A`: specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to a MySQL tenant. 

      * `oceanbase`: the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database. 

      * When you use the direct connection method, make sure that the tenant resources are distributed on the OBServer node you specified. Otherwise, you cannot connect to the tenant by using this OBServer node. 

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u******@obtenant -P2881 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

3. After the connection is established, the following command-line prompt is displayed by default: 

   ```sql
   obclient>
   ```

4. To exit the OBClient command line, enter `exit` and press **Enter**, or press the shortcut key **Ctrl** + **D**. 

## Connection example

Connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient 

```sql
$obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u******@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A sys
Welcome to the OceanBase.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your OceanBase connection id is 3221684181
Server version: OceanBase 4.0.0.0 (r100000302022111120-7cef93737c5cd03331b5f29130c6e80ac950d33b) (Built Nov 11 2022 20:38:33)

Copyright (c) 2000, 2018, OceanBase and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient> SELECT SYSDATE() FROM dual;
+---------------------+
| SYSDATE()           |
+---------------------+
| 2022-09-28 16:18:18 |
+---------------------+
1 row in set

obclient> exit
Bye
```

## More information

For information about how to connect to an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient, see [Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient](../../2.application-development-of-oracle-mode/1.database-connection-of-oracle-mode/2.connect-to-an-oceanbase-tenant-by-using-obclient-of-oracle-mode.md). 
