backup_backup_dest_option
==============================================

`backup_backup_dest_option` specifies parameters related to secondary backup.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is deprecated since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

| Attribute | Description |
|------------------|-------|
| Type | String |
| Default value | Empty string |
| Value range | N/A |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |

Parameters available in `backup_backup_dest_option` are a subset of those in `backup_dest_option`. You cannot specify the `backup_copies` and `log_archive_piece_switch_interval` parameters in `backup_backup_dest_option`.

**Example**


```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET backup_backup_dest_option='log_archive_checkpoint_interval=1h&recovery_window=14d&auto_delete_obsolete_backup=true';
```

where

* The `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` parameter specifies the interval of secondary log backup operations when log splitting is not enabled. We recommend that you enable log splitting to start a secondary log backup.

* The `recovery_window` parameter specifies the time window for recovering secondary backup data. The system determines whether secondary backup data has expired based on the value of this parameter. For example, `recovery_window='7d'` indicates that data within the last 7 days is valid, and the secondary backup data irrelevant to the recovery of this data is considered expired.

* The `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` parameter specifies whether to automatically clear expired secondary backup data. For example, `auto_delete_obsolete_backup=true` specifies that expired secondary backup data is automatically cleared.
