|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

ilog_index_expire_time
===========================================

`ilog_index_expire_time` specifies the validity period of ilog files cached on an OBServer node.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is deprecated since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>



| Attribute | Description |
|------------------|-------------|
| Type | Time |
| Default value | 60d, which indicates 60 days |
| Value range | \[0s, 120d) |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |




In OceanBase Database, `file_id_cache` caches the metadata of all ilog files and records the starting log ID and timestamp of each partition in the ilog files. By default, `file_id_cache` is cleaned only when ilog files are deleted. Therefore, on an OBServer node with a large disk, `file_id_cache` is likely to occupy large memory space. More memory space is required if partitions are repeatedly created and deleted.

You can use the `ilog_index_expire_time` parameter to free up some of the memory space occupied by `file_id_cache`. `ilog_index_expire_time` specifies the validity period of ilog files cached on an OBServer node. After the validity period of an ilog file ends, the ilog file is no longer cached in `file_id_cache`, which reduces the memory usage.

When you set this parameter, note that:

* If you decrease the value of this parameter, the system immediately cleans the expired memory space occupied by `file_id_cache`. You can query the size of space identified by `ob_csr_file_id_cache` to check the memory usage.



* If you increase the value of this parameter, `file_id_cache` caches ilog files within a larger time range after the relevant OBServer node is restarted.



**Example**

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET ilog_index_expire_time = '7d';
```


