|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# backup_dest_option

`backup_dest_option` specifies parameters related to backup.


<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is deprecated since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>




| Attribute | Description |
|------------------|-------|
| Type | String |
| Default value | Empty string |
| Value range | N/A |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |


**Example**

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET backup_dest_option='log_archive_checkpoint_interval=2m&log_archive_piece_switch_interval=1d&backup_copies=0';
```

You can set the following backup parameters by using `backup_dest_option`:

* `log_archive_checkpoint_interval`

   The `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` parameter specifies the interval at which log archive checkpoints are generated for partitions that are infrequently accessed. This helps ensure that data in these partitions is regularly saved and updated.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>Partitions with data writes are archived by clog. Infrequently accessed partitions do not have data writes. Therefore, log archive checkpoints are generated to facilitate log archiving for infrequently accessed partitions. </p>
  </main>

   If you do not specify this parameter for `backup_dest_option`, the value of the cluster-level `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `log_archive_checkpoint_interval`, the default value `120s` is used. If both `backup_dest_option` and `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` are specified, the value of `backup_dest_option` is used. We recommend that you set this parameter for `backup_dest_option`.

* `recovery_window`

   `recovery_window` specifies the time window for recovering backup data. The system determines whether backup data has expired based on the value of this parameter. For example, the configuration `recovery_window='7d'` indicates that backup data within the last 7 days can be recovered, and the backup data beyond this recovery window is considered expired.

   If you do not specify this parameter for `backup_dest_option`, the value of the cluster-level `backup_recovery_window` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `backup_recovery_window`, the default value `0` is used, which indicates that backup data will never expire. If both `backup_dest_option` and `backup_recovery_window` are specified, the value of `backup_dest_option` is used. We recommend that you set this parameter for `backup_dest_option`.

   When the backup expires, the system automatically clears it based on preset rules.

   In the manual clearing mode, when the backup data expires, you can manually clear the data as the administrator.

* `auto_delete_obsolete_backup`

   The `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` parameter specifies whether to enable automatic data clearing. When you set `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` to true, the system automatically clears expired backup data.

   If you do not specify this parameter for `backup_dest_option`, the value of the cluster-level `auto_delete_expired_backup` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `auto_delete_expired_backup`, the default value `false` is used, which indicates that expired backup data is not automatically cleared. If both `backup_dest_option` and `auto_delete_expired_backup` are specified, the value of `backup_dest_option` is used. We recommend that you set this parameter for `backup_dest_option`.

* `log_archive_piece_switch_interval`

   The `log_archive_piece_switch_interval` parameter specifies whether to automatically split the log file directory into multiple subdirectories based on a specific interval. The default value is `0`, which indicates that log splitting is disabled. The valid value range is [1d,7d].

   You can configure this parameter to enable log splitting.

* `backup_copies`

   The `backup_copies` parameter specifies the number of backup copies. The default value is `0`. If you have specified `backup_backup_dest`, we recommend that you set `backup_copies` to `2`. The valid value range of `backup_copies` is \[0, 8].

   If you set `backup_copies` to a value less than `2`, the system deletes backup data without considering whether its secondary backup is successful. If you set `backup_copies` to `2`, the system will only automatically clear backup data in `backup_dest` after its secondary backup is saved to `backup_backup_dest`. If secondary backup is not set, we recommend that you use the default value.
