| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# memory_limit

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`memory_limit` specifies the total memory size available for the specified OBServer node.

The `memory_limit` parameter on an OBServer node takes effect only when both of the following conditions are met:

* The reserved memory for the SYS500 tenant is not less than the actual occupied memory.
* The value of `memory_limit` is greater than the sum of the value of `system_memory` and the size of memory allocated for resource units.

If either condition is not met, the `memory_limit` parameter does not take effect, even when no error is returned.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
|------------------|-----------|
| Type | Varchar |
| Default value | 0  |
| Value range | [1G, +∞) <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><ul><li>The value range of this parameter has been changed from [4G, +∞) to [1G, +∞) since OceanBase Database V4.1.0.   </li><li>The minimum value of this parameter is 1 GB in arbitration service mode and 4 GB in other modes. </li></ul></main> |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter.  |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |

## Considerations

* The default value of `memory_limit` is `0`. If the value is not `0`, the system ignores the setting of `memory_limit_percentage` and uses the value of `memory_limit`. Assume that a physical machine has 100 GB of memory. `memory_limit_percentage` is set to `80`, which indicates that 80% of the memory can be used, and `memory_limit` is set to `'90G'`. In this case, the actual memory available for OceanBase Database on the physical machine depends on the value of `memory_limit`, that is, 90 GB. For more information about `memory_limit_percentage`, see [memory_limit_percentage](13600.memory_limit_percentage.md).

* The default unit for `memory_limit` is MB. For example, `memory_limit='40G'` indicates that the maximum memory that can be used by OceanBase Database processes is 40 GB. As the default unit is MB, the setting of `memory_limit=40960` achieves the same effect as the setting of `memory_limit='40G'`.

* The value of `memory_limit` is unlimited.

   * If memory_limit is set to a value greater than the total physical memory, other values calculated based on memory_limit will be excessively large.

   * To restrict the memory size for running OceanBase Database, you can modify `memory_limit` as required. After the modification, the backend parameter reloads the thread to dynamically enforce the setting without requiring a restart. However, you need to set `memory_limit` to a value smaller than the total memory of the system.

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>The value of <code>memory_limit</code> must be greater than the actual memory used by the OBServer node. </p>
    </main>

## Examples

* Set the total memory available for the OBServer node to 32 GB.

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET memory_limit='32G';
   ```

* Query the used memory, in GB.

   ```shell
   obclient> SELECT value/1024/1024/1024 used_gb FROM v$sysstat WHERE name LIKE '%observer memory%' AND con_id = 1 AND stat_id=140008 AND name='observer memory used size';
   ```

## References

* [Set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database](../../../../700.reference/200.system-management/700.memory-management/300.maximum-database-memory.md)
* [Check resources](../../../../400.deploy/500.deploy-oceanbase-database-community-edition/200.local-deployment/200.environment-and-configuration-checks/100.view-resources-optional.md)
