|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

memory_limit
=================================

`memory_limit` specifies the total memory size available.


<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>The value range of this parameter is changed from [4G, +∞) to [1G, +∞) since OceanBase Database V4.1.0.    </p>
</main>


| **Attribute** | **Description** |
|------------------|-----------|
| Type | Capacity |
| Default value | 0 |
| Value range | [1G, +∞) |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>If the OBServer node starts in arbitration service mode, you can set the minimum value to 1 GB. However, if the OBServer node starts in other modes, we recommend that you set the minimum value to 4 GB for the sake of stability.   </p>
</main>


The default value of `memory_limit` is `0`. If the value is not `0`, the system ignores the setting of `memory_limit_percentage` and uses the value of `memory_limit`. Assume that a physical machine has 100 GB of memory. `memory_limit_percentage` is set to `80`, which indicates that 80% of the memory can be used, and `memory_limit` is set to `'90G'`. In this case, the actual memory available for OceanBase Database on the physical machine depends on the value of `memory_limit`, that is, 90 GB.

Take note of the following considerations:

* The default unit for `memory_limit` is MB.

   For example, `memory_limit='40G'` indicates that the maximum memory that can be used by OceanBase Database processes is 40 GB. As the default unit is MB, the setting of `memory_limit=40960` achieves the same effect as the setting of `memory_limit='40G'`.

* The value of `memory_limit` is unlimited. If `memory_limit` is set to a value greater than the total physical memory, other values calculated based on `memory_limit` will be excessively large.

* To restrict the memory size for running OceanBase Database, you can modify `memory_limit` as required. After the modification, the backend parameter reloads the thread to dynamically enforce the setting without requiring a restart. However, you need to set `memory_limit` to a value smaller than the total memory of the system.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The value of <code>memory_limit</code> must be greater than the actual memory used by the OBServer node. </p>
  </main>

   You can query the used memory (in GB) by using the following command:

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT value/1024/1024/1024 used_gb FROM v$sysstat WHERE name LIKE '%observer memory%' AND con_id = 1 AND stat_id=140008 AND name='observer memory used size';
   ```
