| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# ssl_external_kms_info

`ssl_external_kms_info` specifies some information that the SSL features of OceanBase Database rely on. The configurations for different SSL modes are recorded in JSON string format. The JSON string contains at least the ssl_mode field.

| Attribute | Description |
|------------------|------|
| Type | String |
| Default value | Empty string |
| Value range | None |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No |

Take note of the following considerations:

* The default value of this parameter is an empty string. When SSL is enabled, the default file in the default path is used as the SSL key.

* The value of this parameter must be in valid JSON format. Otherwise, an error will be reported during the configuration check.

* This parameter has the following valid values: `file` and `bkmi`.

   * When `ssl_mode` is set to `file`, the JSON string does not need to contain other content.

   * When `ssl_mode` is set to `bkmi`, the server does not store the SSL file but obtains it from BKMI during operation. In addition, the JSON string must contain the complete application name, BKMI URL, BKMI root certificate, identity key, identity key password, name and version of the SSL private key, and name of the SSL certificate. Such information must be valid and useful. That is, the server can obtain private keys and certificates from BKMI. Otherwise, an error will be reported.

To support other external certificate issuance systems, `ssl_external_kms_info` can be customized to support other JSON strings.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET ssl_external_kms_info = '
{
"ssl_mode":"file"
}';
```

