| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# syslog_compress_func

<main id="notice" type='explain'>

  <h4>Note</h4>

  <ul><li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.x, this parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.3.1. </li><li>For OceanBase Database V4.2.x, this parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.2.3. </li></ul>

</main>

## Description

`syslog_compress_func` specifies the compression algorithm for system log files. 

When compression is enabled, the `observer.log`, `rootservice.log`, `election.log`, and `trace.log` files whose file names are suffixed with timestamps are compressed, and files whose file names are suffixed with `.wf` are not compressed. 

## Limitations

* Query the parameter

   In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can execute the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement to query the parameter or query the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view for the parameter. In the `sys` tenant, you can also query the `information_schema.PARAMETERS` view for the parameter. 

* Modify the parameter

   You can modify the parameter only in the `sys` tenant. 

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| -------- | -------- |
| Type | String |
| Default value | `none`, which specifies not to compress system log files.  |
| Value range | `none`, `zstd_1.0`, and `zstd_1.3.8` |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter.  |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

* After you specify the `syslog_compress_func` parameter, log compression does not start immediately. When the number of logs or disk usage reaches the upper limit, compression starts from the earliest log file. This way, more uncompressed log files are retained, which helps you analyze problems based on logs. 

* After you modify the `syslog_compress_func` parameter, subsequent logs will be compressed by using the specified algorithm. Existing compressed log files are not modified. When you delete log files, the system checks only the timestamps while ignoring file name extensions. 

* **The relationship between the `syslog_compress_func` parameter and the [syslog_file_uncompressed_count](22060.syslog_file_uncompressed_count.md), [syslog_disk_size](22050.syslog_disk_size.md), and [max_syslog_file_count](13300.max_syslog_file_count.md) parameters is as follows:**

   * `syslog_compress_func =none`:

      1. The `syslog_file_uncompressed_count` parameter is invalid.
      2. The `syslog_disk_size` and `max_syslog_file_count` parameters control the maximum size and number of log files. 

   * `syslog_compress_func !=none`:

      1. The `max_syslog_file_count` parameter is invalid.
      2. When the number of log files exceeds the value specified by `syslog_file_uncompressed_count`, subsequent log files will be compressed. When the total size of log files is close to the value specified by `syslog_disk_size`, the earliest log file is deleted. 

## Example

Set the compression algorithm for system logs to `zstd_1.3.8`. 

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET syslog_compress_func = 'zstd_1.3.8';
```

## References

* [Logs](../../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/1200.observer-node-architecture/400.log.md)
* [Log control](../../../../600.manage/800.logging/400.log-control.md)
