| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# syslog_disk_size

<main id="notice" type='explain'>

  <h4>Note</h4>

  <ul><li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.x, this parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.3.1. </li><li>For OceanBase Database V4.2.x, this parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.2.3. </li></ul>

</main>

## Description

`syslog_disk_size` specifies the maximum disk space for system logs. When the total size of system logs is close to the value specified by this parameter, the earliest log file is deleted, regardless of whether it is compressed. 

## Limitations

* Query the parameter

   In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can execute the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement to query the parameter or query the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view for the parameter. In the `sys` tenant, you can also query the `information_schema.PARAMETERS` view for the parameter. 

* Modify the parameter

   You can modify the parameter only in the `sys` tenant. 

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| -------- | -------- |
| Type | Capacity |
| Default value | `0M`, which specifies to delete log files to recycle disk space.  |
| Value range | [0, +∞) |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter.  |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

* This parameter specifies the maximum disk space for all uncompressed and compressed log files in the `{install_path}/log` directory. 

* The relationship between the `syslog_disk_size` parameter and the [max_syslog_file_count](13300.max_syslog_file_count.md) parameter is as follows:

   1. `max_syslog_file_count=0` and `syslog_disk_size=0`: Log files are not deleted until the disk is full.
   2. `max_syslog_file_count=0` and `syslog_disk_size>0`: When the total size of log files is close to the value specified by `syslog_disk_size`, the earliest log file is deleted to recycle disk space
   3. `max_syslog_file_count>0` and `syslog_disk_size=0`: When the number of specific log files exceeds the value specified by `max_syslog_file_count`, the earliest log file is deleted to recycle disk space.
   4. `max_syslog_file_count>0` and `syslog_disk_size>0`: When the number of specific log files exceeds the value specified by `max_syslog_file_count` or the total size of log files is close to the value specified by `syslog_disk_size`, the earliest compressed log file is deleted. 

## Example

Set the maximum disk space for system logs to 50 GB. 

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET syslog_disk_size='50GB';
```

## References

* [Logs](../../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/1200.observer-node-architecture/400.log.md)
* [Log control](../../../../600.manage/800.logging/400.log-control.md)
