| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# data_disk_write_limit_percentage

<main id="notice" type='explain'>

  <h4>Note</h4>

  <ul><li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.x, this parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.3.1. </li><li>For OceanBase Database V4.2.x, this parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.2.3. </li></ul>

</main>

## Description

`data_disk_write_limit_percentage` specifies the maximum usage of the data disk allowed for data writes, in percentage. When the usage of the data disk is close to the specified value, the system limits write operations from business requests to prevent the data disk from running out of space. 

## Limitations

* Query the parameter

   In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can execute the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement to query the parameter or query the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view for the parameter. In the `sys` tenant, you can also query the `information_schema.PARAMETERS` view for the parameter. 

* Modify the parameter

   You can modify the parameter only in the `sys` tenant. 

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| -------- | -------- |
| Type | Integer |
| Default value | `0`, which specifies to disable data writes to the data disk.  |
| Value range | [0, 100) |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter.  |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

* This parameter controls the system to stop writing data to the data disk when the data disk usage reaches the specified upper limit. This way, you can identify problems as soon as possible and delete tables to urgently release space, thus facilitating cluster restore. 
* **The value of this parameter must be greater than or equal to the value of the [data_disk_usage_limit_percentage](4100.data_disk_usage_limit_percentage.md) parameter.** 
* **We recommend that you set this parameter by using the following formula: (1 -memstore_limit_size/data_disk_size) × 100%**. The parameters in the formula are described as follows:

   * `memstore_limit_size`: the maximum size of MemStores, which is equal to `memory_size × memstore_limit_percentage`. 
   * `data_disk_size`: the size of the data disk.

## Example

Set the maximum usage of the data disk allowed for data writes to 90%.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET data_disk_write_limit_percentage=90;
```

## References

[memstore_limit_percentage](13800.memstore_limit_percentage.md)