# OCP

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) is an enterprise-level database management platform with OceanBase Database serving as its core.

OCP provides full-lifecycle management of components such as OceanBase clusters and tenants, and manages OceanBase resources such as hosts, networks, and software packages. It enables you to manage OceanBase clusters more efficiently and reduce the IT O&M costs for enterprises.

As an enterprise-level database management platform for OceanBase, OCP has a wealth of features:

* Efficient OceanBase cluster management

   * OCP supports high-availability deployment.

   * OCP responds to requests in seconds.

* Clear information framework

   * The new object-oriented architecture offers immersive management of every single cluster or tenant to better fit your habits.

   * Modules in the immersive navigation pane are divided based on the work scenarios of DBAs to provide clearer access to the corresponding features.

* Smooth and efficient user operations

   * The core jobs are properly organized to provide a clear and continuous process.

   * OCP provides quick access to maintenance tasks, which allows you to instantly switch to these tasks from any page.

* Visual experience

   * You can see a clear flowchart and an interactive canvas on the task details page. They can help you efficiently manage your tasks.

   * The newly provided topologies of clusters and tenants reveal the distributed business logic, running status, and key data.

* Professional features

   * OCP provides full lifecycle management over OceanBase clusters

   * All management functions of OCP are designed based on features of OceanBase Database.

   * OCP provides progressive management from clusters to sessions.

   * OCP provides well-designed topologies.
