# Overview

An SQL query is used to obtain data in a database. It can be used with conditional clauses (such as WHERE), order clauses (such as ORDER BY), and other clauses as required to get the query results. This topic describes the basic operations and components of queries.

## Basic operations of queries

Queries are essentially relational operations. In databases, relations are stored in tables. Each row is a tuple of a set, and each column is an attribute of a set.

Basic relational operations include the following ones:

* Selection: selects several tuples that meet the specified condition from a relation. In a database, this operation selects several rows from a table.

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT * FROM t WHERE c1 <10;
   ```

* Projection: selects several attributes that meet the specified condition from a relation. In a database, this operation selects several columns from a table.

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT c1,c2 FROM t;
   ```

* Join: selects a tuple that meets the specified condition from the Cartesian product of two relations. In a database, this operation selects objects that meet the specified condition from the Cartesian product of two tables.

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT t1.c2,t2.c4 FROM t1 JOIN t2 WHERE t1.c1 = t2.c3;
   ```

## Components of queries

The query syntax is as follows, where `att_name` specifies the attribute name and `rel_name` specifies the relation name:

```sql
SELECT att_name FROM rel_name;
```

A relation composed of a single tuple is called a single-tuple relation. A relation composed of a single element is called a single-element tuple. That is, a single element can serve as a relation. Therefore, a basic query can contain only a single element. The query in the following example is valid.

```sql
obclient> SELECT 1;
+---+
| 1 |
+---+
| 1 |
+---+
1 row in set
```

In the query results, the first value `1` indicates the attribute name of the element, and the second value `1` indicates the value of the element.

OceanBase Database supports the `FROM DUAL` syntax. `DUAL` indicates a virtual table and is used to constitute the syntax rules of the `SELECT` statement.

```sql
obclient> SELECT 1 FROM DUAL;
+---+
| 1 |
+---+
| 1 |
+---+
1 row in set
```

### FROM clause

The `FROM` clause specifies the relation name of the query. Because the query results are also a relation, you can use the query results as the relation referenced by the `FROM` clause.

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM (SELECT 1 FROM DUAL);
+---+
| 1 |
+---+
| 1 |
+---+
1 row in set
```

### WHERE clause

The `WHERE` clause specifies the condition for querying tuples. It checks whether a specific attribute of each tuple meets the condition, and returns the tuples whose comparison results are `TRUE`. For example, in the following query, an empty set is always returned when the `WHERE` condition is `FALSE` or `NULL`.

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM (SELECT 1 FROM DUAL) WHERE TRUE;
+---+
| 1 |
+---+
| 1 |
+---+
1 row in set

obclient> SELECT * FROM (SELECT 1 FROM DUAL) WHERE FALSE;
Empty set

obclient> SELECT * FROM (SELECT 1 FROM DUAL) WHERE NULL;
Empty set
```

### ORDER BY clause

The `ORDER BY` clause sorts the query results. You can specify several columns `c1,c2,...` for sorting, so that the query results are sorted by column.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE t (c1 INTEGER,c2 INTEGER);
obclient> SELECT * FROM t ORDER BY c1,c2;
```

OceanBase Database allows you to use numbers `1,2,...` to indicate the first column, the second column, and so on in the relation `t`. Therefore, the preceding query can be rewritten as follows:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM t ORDER BY 1,2;
```

### GROUP BY clause

The `GROUP BY` clause groups the query results. You can specify several columns `c1,c2,...` for grouping, so that the query results are grouped by column.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE t (c1 INTEGER,c2 INTEGER);
obclient> SELECT * FROM t GROUP BY c1,c2;
```

OceanBase Database allows you to use numbers `1,2,...` to indicate the first column, the second column, and so on in the relation `t`. Therefore, the preceding query can be rewritten as follows:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM t GROUP BY 1,2;
```

### LIMIT clause

The `LIMIT` clause specifies the maximum number of rows in the query results. `LIMIT` has two syntaxes:

* `LIMIT N`: returns only the first `N` rows in the query results.

* `LIMIT N,M`: returns `M` rows starting from the `N+1`th row in the query results.

### HAVING clause

The `HAVING` clause is similar to the `WHERE` clause, but the `HAVING` clause applies to aggregate functions.
