| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# SRS

The spatial reference system (SRS) of spatial data is a coordinate-based geographic location system. OceanBase Database supports only the system default SRS. 

Generally, SRSs can be classified into the following types:

* Projected SRSs. A projected SRS is a projection of the earth onto a flat surface, that is, a flat map. The coordinate system on this plane is a Cartesian coordinate system and uses length units such as meters and feet, rather than degrees of longitude and latitude. 

* Geographic SRSs. A geographic SRS is a non-projected SRS that represents the longitude-latitude or latitude-longitude coordinates on an ellipsoid, in any angular unit. 

`SRID 0` represents an infinite flat Cartesian plane with no units assigned to its axes. Unlike a projected SRS, it is not georeferenced and does not necessarily represent Earth. It is an abstract plane. `SRID 0` is the default `SRID` for spatial data. 

You can obtain SRS content from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA ST_SPATIAL_REFERENCE_SYSTEMS` table, as shown in the following example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT *  FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ST_SPATIAL_REFERENCE_SYSTEMS
     WHERE SRS_ID = 4326\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
                SRS_NAME: WGS 84
                  SRS_ID: 4326
            ORGANIZATION: EPSG
ORGANIZATION_COORDSYS_ID: 4326
              DEFINITION: GEOGCS["WGS 84",DATUM["World Geodetic System 1984",SPHEROID["WGS 84",6378137,298.257223563,AUTHORITY["EPSG","7030"]],AUTHORITY["EPSG","6326"]],PRIMEM["Greenwich",0,AUTHORITY["EPSG","8901"]],UNIT["degree",0.017453292519943278,AUTHORITY["EPSG","9122"]],AXIS["Lat",NORTH],AXIS["Lon",EAST],AUTHORITY["EPSG","4326"]]
             DESCRIPTION: NULL
1 row in set
```

The preceding example describes an SRS used in a GPS. Its name (`SRS_NAME`) is `WGS 84` and its ID (`SRS_ID`) is `4326`. 

The SRS definition in the `DEFINITION` column is a well-known text (`WKT`) value. WKT is defined in the extended Backus–Naur form (EBNF). WKT can be used either as a data format (WKT-Data) or as an SRS definition in a GIS. 

The `SRS_ID` value represents a geometry value of the same type as `SRID` or is passed as an `SRID` parameter to a spatial function. `SRID 0` (the Cartesian plane without units) is a special, valid SRS ID that can be used for any spatial data calculation that depends on `SRID` values. 

For the calculation of multiple geometry values, all values must have the same `SRID`; otherwise, an error occurs. 
