| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   |                 |

# ACTIVATE STANDBY

You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY` statement to activate a standby tenant as the primary tenant after physical restore is completed or in the Physical Standby Database scenario.

After the statement is successfully executed, the role of the standby tenant changes from `STANDBY` to `PRIMARY`. For more information about tenant roles, see [Overview](../../../../../600.manage/400.high-availability/300.physical-standby-database-disaster-recovery/600.role-switch/100.role-switch-overview.md).

## Limitations and considerations

* Before you execute this statement, make sure that all log stream replicas of the standby tenant are online. If any replicas are offline, you must wait until the offline replicas are permanently removed.

* You can use this statement to activate only one standby tenant as the primary tenant at a time. If you want to activate multiple standby tenants, execute this statement repeatedly.

## Required privileges

Only the `root` user of the `sys` tenant (`root@sys`) or the administrator user of a user tenant can execute this statement. 

* The default administrator user in MySQL mode is `root`.

* The default administrator user in Oracle mode is `SYS`.

## Syntax

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY TENANT tenant_name;
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| tenant_name | The name of the standby tenant to be activated as the primary tenant. <main id="notice" type='notice'> <h4>Notice</h4> <p>When you execute this statement in the `sys` tenant, you must specify the <code>TENANT tenant_name</code> clause. When you execute this statement in a user tenant, it takes effect only on the current tenant, and therefore you do not need to specify this clause. </p></main> |

## Examples

* In the Physical Standby Database scenario, log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster to which the standby tenant `tenant1` belongs and activate it as the primary tenant. Alternatively, in the physical backup and restore scenario, log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster to which the restored standby tenant `tenant1` belongs and activate it as the primary tenant to provide services.

   ```sql
   obclient [oceanbase]> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY TENANT tenant1;
   ```

* In the Physical Standby Database scenario, log on to a standby tenant and activate it as the primary tenant. Alternatively, in the physical backup and restore scenario, log on to a standby tenant and activate it as the primary tenant to provide services.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY;
   ```

## References

* [Failover](../../../../../600.manage/400.high-availability/300.physical-standby-database-disaster-recovery/600.role-switch/300.perform-failover.md)

* [Convert a standby tenant into primary tenant](../../../../../600.manage/600.backup-and-recovery/600.restore-data/600.active-standby-tenant.md)
