|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

OceanBase Database provides a wide range of features to protect the security and reliability of data in various scenarios where a manual or non-manual exception occurs. These features include multi-replica replication for high availability (HA), recycle bin, flashback query, and backup and restore.

## Hardware exceptions

When a disk becomes faulty, the data stored on the disk may encounter errors. In OceanBase Database, a checksum is stored for REDO logs and the data in SSTables. When data is read, strict checksum verification is performed to detect errors in a timely manner. The mechanism that detects silent data corruption can also detect errors in cold blocks that have not been read for a long period of time. For more information about the mechanism, see [Detect silent data corruption](../../900.storage-architecture/600.data-integrity/100.silent-errors-found-for-disk.md).

When a network device such as a switch becomes faulty, a packet error may occur. Strict packet verification and check are performed for all network packets that are exchanged between clients and OBServer nodes and within the OceanBase clusters.

## Manual exceptions

Database objects that are deleted by mistake can be restored from the recycle bin.

When an application encounters a software defect, an operation error, or a malicious attack, the table data is regarded as error data. You can use the flashback query feature to read the historical snapshots of the table data and then restore data.

In OceanBase Database, the backup and restore feature provides an efficient mechanism to back up all data and metadata. The feature also serves as the most reliable method for protecting user data. For more information about backup and restore, see [Backup and restore](../500.backup-and-recovery/100.backup-and-recovery-overview.md).
