|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Numeric data types

OceanBase Database supports standard SQL numeric types, including exact numeric types, approximate numeric types, the BIT data type for storing bit values, and extended types.

## Overview

**Data type categories**

The numeric types supported by the current version of OceanBase Database can be divided into the following four categories:

* Integer types: `BOOL/BOOLEAN/TINYINT`, `SMALLINT`, `MEDIUMINT`, `INT/INTEGER`, and `BIGINT`

* Fixed-point types: `DECIMAL` and `NUMERIC`

* Floating-point types: `FLOAT` and `DOUBLE`

* Bit-value type: `BIT`

Numeric types can be specified with precision (the total number of digits in a number) and scale (the number of digits to the right of the decimal point) when they are defined. The meaning of precision and scale may vary for different numeric types. For more details, refer to the documentation of each type.

**ZEROFILL attribute**

You can use the `ZEROFILL` keyword to specify the minimum display width of a numeric data type, and implicitly define the type as `UNSIGNED`. If the actual display width of data is less than the minimum display width, the fractional part is first padded with zeros to reach the maximum scale, and the integer part is then padded with zeros to reach the maximum precision. This way, the minimum display width is reached.

Here are some examples:

* `INT(5) ZEROFILL` indicates that when the data value is 123, it will be displayed as 00123.

* `DECIMAL(10, 5) ZEROFILL` indicates that when the data value is 123.456, it will be displayed as 00123.45600.

## Integer types

Integer data types are used to store precise numeric values with fixed lengths. The value range of an integer data type depends on the length of the data type and whether the data type is unsigned. The precision of an integer data type indicates the minimum display width.

The following table describes the length and value range of each integer data type supported by OceanBase Database.


| Type | Length (bytes) | Value range (signed) | Value range (unsigned) |
|---------------------------------------------|--------|-----------------------|------------------|
| `BOOL`/`BOOLEAN`/`TINYINT` | 1 | \[-2<sup>7</sup>, 2<sup>7</sup> - 1\] | \[0, 2<sup>8</sup> - 1\] |
| `SMALLINT` | 2 | \[-2<sup>15</sup>, 2<sup>15</sup> - 1\] | \[0, 2<sup>16</sup> - 1\] |
| `MEDIUMINT` | 3 | \[-2<sup>23</sup>, 2<sup>23</sup> - 1\] | \[0, 2<sup>24</sup> - 1\] |
| `INT`/`INTEGER` | 4 | \[-2<sup>31</sup>, 2<sup>31</sup> - 1\] | \[0, 2<sup>32</sup> - 1\] |
| `BIGINT` | 8 | \[-2<sup>63</sup>, 2<sup>63</sup> - 1\] | \[0, 2<sup>64</sup> - 1\] |


**TINYINT**

The `TINYINT` data type is used to represent a very small integer. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
TINYINT[(M)] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```


Here, `M` indicates the maximum display width. The maximum value of `M` is 255. The display width is independent of the range of values that can be stored. If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column.

**BOOL/BOOLEAN**

The `BOOL/BOOLEAN` data type is a synonym for the `TINYINT` data type. A zero value indicates false, whereas a non-zero value indicates true. Here is an example:

```plain
obclient> SELECT IF(0, 'true', 'false');
+------------------------+
| IF(0, 'true', 'false') |
+------------------------+
| false                  |
+------------------------+
1 row in set

obclient> SELECT IF(1, 'true', 'false');
+------------------------+
| IF(1, 'true', 'false') |
+------------------------+
| true                   |
+------------------------+
1 row in set

obclient> SELECT IF(2, 'true', 'false');
+------------------------+
| IF(2, 'true', 'false') |
+------------------------+
| true                   |
+------------------------+
1 row in set

obclient> SELECT IF(2 = FALSE, 'true', 'false');
+--------------------------------+
| IF(2 = FALSE, 'true', 'false') |
+--------------------------------+
| false                          |
+--------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

**SMALLINT**

The `SMALLINT` data type is used to represent a small integer. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
SMALLINT[(M)] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

Here, `M` indicates the maximum display width. The maximum value of `M` is 255. The display width is independent of the range of values that can be stored. If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column.

**MEDIUMINT**

The `MEDIUMINT` data type is used to represent a medium-sized integer. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
MEDIUMINT[(M)] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```


Here, `M` indicates the maximum display width. The maximum value of `M` is 255. The display width is independent of the range of values that can be stored. If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column.

**INT or INTEGER**

The `INT` or `INTEGER` data type is used to represent a normal-sized integer. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
INT[(M)] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL] INTEGER[(M)] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

Here, `M` indicates the maximum display width. The maximum value of `M` is 255. The display width is independent of the range of values that can be stored. If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column. ​

**BIGINT**

The BIGINT data type is used to represent a large integer. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
BIGINT[(M)] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

Here, `M` indicates the maximum display width. The maximum value of `M` is 255. The display width is independent of the range of values that can be stored. If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column.

When you use `BIGINT`, note that:

* You must use signed `BIGINT` or `DOUBLE` values in all operations. Therefore, you cannot use unsigned integers that are larger than 9223372036854775807 in value or greater than 63 bits in length except in bit() functions. Otherwise, a rounding error may occur when you convert a `BIGINT` value to a `DOUBLE` value. As a result, the last digit in the conversion result may be incorrect.

* You can store an exact integer in a `BIGINT` column as a string. In this case, OceanBase Database can convert a string into a number without intermediate double-precision representation.

* If both operands are integers, the `BIGINT` arithmetic is used for subtraction, addition, and multiplication. In this case, if you multiply two big integers (or integers returned by a function), an exception may occur if the multiplication result is greater than 9223372036854775807.

## Fixed-point types

The fixed-point data types are used to store precise numeric values with variable lengths. The value range and precision of a fixed-point data type depend on the precision and scale parameters and whether the data type is unsigned.

`DECIMAL` is equivalent to `NUMERIC`. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
DECIMAL[(M[,D])] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

Here, `M` specifies the precision (total number of digits in the value that can be stored) and `D` specifies the scale (the number of digits after the decimal point). The decimal point (.) and minus sign (-) are not counted in `M`. If `D` is 0, the value does not have the decimal point or fractional part. The result of subtracting `D` from `M` is the maximum number of valid digits in the integer part.

In the `DECIMAL` syntax, the maximum value of `M` is 65, and the maximum value of `D` is 30. If `D` is not specified, the value of `D` is 0. If `M` is not specified, the value of `M` is 10. When neither `M` nor `D` is specified, the precision is 65 digits for the results of all basic operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division) involving a `DECIMAL` column.

If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column. If a column is defined as `UNSIGNED`, the column values cannot be negative.

For example, `DECIMAL(5, 2)` indicates that the maximum number of valid digits in the integral part is 3 and that in the fractional part is 2, so the value range is \[-999.99, 999.99\]. If you specify the `UNSIGNED` attribute, the value range is \[0,999.99\].

Data types in the following syntax are synonyms for the `DECIMAL` data type. Among them, `FIXED` is compatible with other database systems.

```sql
DEC[(M[,D])] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL], NUMERIC[(M[,D])] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL],
FIXED[(M[,D])] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

## Floating-point types

The floating-point data types are used to store imprecise numeric values with fixed lengths. The value range and precision of a floating-point data type depend on the precision and scale parameters and whether the data type is unsigned.

Precision specifies the total maximum number of valid digits and scale specifies the maximum number of valid digits in the fractional part. You can obtain the maximum number of valid digits in the integer part by subtracting the scale from the precision. The maximum value of the precision is 53 and that of the scale is 30.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The precision of a floating-point data type is only a theoretical value specified in the IEEE standard and is subject to hardware or operating system limitations. </p>
  </main>

The following table describes the length and value range of each floating-point data type when the precision and scale parameters are not specified.


| Type | Length (bytes) | Value range | Precision (digits) |
|--------|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| FLOAT | 4 | \[-3.402823466E+38,-1.175494351E-38\], 0, and \[1.175494351E-38,3.402823466E+38\] | 7 |
| DOUBLE | 8 | \[-1.7976931348623157E+308,-2.2250738585072014E-308\], 0, and \[2.2250738585072014E-308,1.7976931348623157E+308\] | 15 |

If the precision and scale parameters are specified, the value range is determined in the same way as that for the fixed-point data types. ​

**FLOAT**

The FLOAT data type is used to represent a small (single-precision) floating-point number. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
FLOAT [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

Here, `M` specifies the total number of digits in the value that can be stored, and `D` specifies the number of digits after the decimal point. If `M` and `D` are omitted, values are stored to the limits allowed by the hardware. A single-precision floating-point number is accurate to approximately 7 decimal places.

If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column. If a column is defined as `UNSIGNED`, the column values cannot be negative.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p><ul><li>The <code>FLOAT(M,D)</code> syntax is deprecated in the latest MySQL release. We recommend that you do not use this syntax. </li><li>The <code>FLOAT</code> data type is a single-precision floating-point number, and its maximum effective precision does not exceed 7 digits. If the effective precision of the input value is greater than 7 digits, only the value of the first 7 significant digits are guaranteed. This issue also occurs in MySQL databases. If you need to query exact values, use the <code>DECIMAL</code> data type. </li></ul></p>
</main>

The following `FLOAT` syntax is also supported:

```sql
FLOAT(p) [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

Here, `p` specifies the precision in bits. It is used only to determine whether to use `FLOAT` or `DOUBLE` for the resulting data type. If `p` is from 0 to 24, the data type becomes `FLOAT`, without the `M` or `D` value. If `p` is from 25 to 53, the data type becomes `DOUBLE`, without the `M` or `D` value. The range of the resulting column is the same as that of the `FLOAT` or `DOUBLE` data type described in the preceding table. ​

**DOUBLE**

The `DOUBLE` data type is used to represent a normal-sized (double-precision) floating-point number. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
DOUBLE [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

Here, `M` specifies the total number of digits in the value that can be stored, and `D` specifies the number of digits after the decimal point. If `M` and `D` are omitted, values are stored to the limits allowed by the hardware. A double-precision floating-point number is accurate to approximately 15 decimal places.

If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column. If a column is defined as `UNSIGNED`, the column values cannot be negative.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>The <code>DOUBLE[(M,D)]</code> syntax is deprecated in the latest MySQL release. We recommend that you do not use this syntax. The <code>DOUBLE</code> data type is a double-precision floating-point number, and its maximum effective precision does not exceed 15 digits. If the effective precision of the input value is greater than 15 digits, only the value of the first 15 significant digits are guaranteed. This issue also occurs in MySQL databases. If you need to query exact values, use the <code>DECIMAL</code> data type. </li>
    <li>For an OceanBase database, you can set <code>D</code> only to 0. The error message "Feature not supported" is reported if you set D to a non-zero value. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

**DOUBLE PRECISION**

The `DOUBLE PRECISION` data type is a synonym for the `DOUBLE` data type. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
DOUBLE PRECISION [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL], REAL[(M,D)] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The <code>DOUBLE PRECISION [(M,D)]</code> syntax is deprecated in the latest MySQL release. We recommend that you do not use this syntax. If you need to query exact values, use the <code>DECIMAL</code> data type. </p>
  </main>

## Bit value type

The `BIT` type is used to store bit values.

A bit value is specified by using the `b'value'` notation. Here, `value` is a binary value written in zeros and ones. For example, `b'111'` indicates 7, and `b'10000000'` indicates 128.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
BIT[(M)]
```

Here, `M` specifies the total number of digits in the value. The range of `M` is \[1,64\]. If `M` is not specified, the value of `M` is 1.

When you insert a value into the `BIT(M)` column, if the length of the inserted value is less than `M`, the value is left-padded with zeros. For example, if `b'101'` is inserted into `BIT(6)`, it is equivalent to inserting `b'000101'`.
