|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Character data types

Character data types store characters such as numbers and letters as strings. This topic describes the most commonly used character data types, including `CHAR` and `VARCHAR` types, as well as `BINARY` and `VARBINARY` types.

## CHAR and VARCHAR

The `CHAR` and `VARCHAR` types are similar but differ in the way they are stored and retrieved and how they process trailing spaces.

You can specify the maximum length for both the `CHAR` and `VARCHAR` types. For example, `CHAR(30)` can store up to 30 characters.

You can specify the length of a `CHAR` column to a value from 0 to 256. When `CHAR` values are stored, their consecutive trailing spaces are truncated. When `CHAR` values are retrieved, they are padded with spaces to the specified length if the `PAD_CHAR_TO_FULL_LENGTH` SQL mode is enabled.

You can specify the length of a `VARCHAR` column to a value from 0 to 262144. The valid maximum length of a `VARCHAR` value is 262,144 bytes.

If the length of a value inserted into a `CHAR` or `VARCHAR` column exceeds the maximum length of the column and the value of `sql_mode` contains `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES`, an error is reported. However, if the value of `sql_mode` does not contain `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES`, the excess part of the inserted value is automatically truncated to fit the maximum length and an alert is reported.

When values in the `VARCHAR` and `CHAR` columns are stored, the values are compared based on the collation configured for the columns.

## BINARY and VARBINARY

The `BINARY` and `VARBINARY` types are similar to the `CHAR` and `VARCHAR` types. The difference is that the `BINARY` and `VARBINARY` types store binary data.

The maximum length is the same for the `BINARY` and `VARBINARY` types as it is for the `CHAR` and `VARCHAR` types. However, the maximum length for the `BINARY` and `VARBINARY` types is measured in bytes.

When `BINARY` values are stored, the values are right-padded with 0x00, that is, \\0, to the specified maximum length.

In strict mode, an error is reported if the length of a value to be inserted into a column exceeds the maximum length of the column. In non-strict mode, if the length of a value to be inserted into a column exceeds the maximum length of the column, the excess part is truncated and an alert is reported.

The trailing zero bytes (0x00) of `BINARY` values are explicitly compared. 0x00 and space differ in comparisons, with 0x00 sorting before space.
