|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# LOB data types

OceanBase Database supports large object (LOB) data types, including binary large object (BLOB) and TEXT.

The `BLOB` data types are `TINYBLOB`, `BLOB`, `MEDIUMBLOB`, and `LONGBLOB`. The `TEXT` data types are `TINYTEXT`, `TEXT`, `MEDIUMTEXT`, and `LONGTEXT`.

The `BLOB` type stores binary strings, and the comparisons and sorting of BLOB values are based on the numerical value of each byte. The `TEXT` type stores non-binary strings, and the comparisons and sorting of `TEXT` values are based on the character sequence of the character set. If the `BINARY` character set is specified for a `TEXT` type, it is equivalent to a `BLOB` type.

In non-strict mode, users can insert strings into `BLOB` or `TEXT` columns that exceed the maximum length of the column. The extra part will be truncated. In strict mode, this scenario will result in an error. If the extra part consists only of spaces, regardless of whether strict mode is enabled or not, there will be no error.

For a `TEXT` or `BLOB` column, trailing space padding is not performed during an insert and trailing space stripping is not performed during a query.

In most cases, a `BLOB` column can be considered as a `VARBINARY` column that can be as long as you like. In the same way, a `TEXT` column can be considered as a `VARCHAR` column. The difference is that a `BLOB` or `TEXT` column cannot have a default value, but a `VARBINARY` or `VARCHAR` column can.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>You cannot create an index on a <code>TEXT</code> or <code>BLOB</code> column. </p>
  </main>

Among the `TINYTEXT`, `TEXT`, `MEDIUMTEXT`, and `LONGTEXT` data types, only the `TEXT` data type allows you to explicitly specify the length. OceanBase Database can determine the appropriate data type to be used based on the length that you specify. These rules also apply to the `BLOB` types. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE t(c1 TEXT(30), c2 TEXT(300), c3 TEXT(30000), c4 TEXT(10000000));
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> DESC t;
+-------+------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
| Field | Type       | Null | Key | Default | Extra |
+-------+------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
| c1    | tinytext   | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
| c2    | text       | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
| c3    | mediumtext | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
| c4    | longtext   | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
+-------+------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
```


