|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Spatial data types

OceanBase Database supports the construction, storage, and analysis of spatial data types of Geographic Information System (GIS).

The supported spatial data types in OceanBase Database are as follows:

* `GEOMETRY`
* `POINT`
* `LINESTRING`
* `POLYGON`
* `MULTIPOINT`
* `MULTILINESTRING`
* `MULTIPOLYGON`
* `GEOMETRYCOLLECTION`

## Single-value types

A single-value type holds a single spatial value, such as:

* `GEOMETRY`, which can hold any type of geometry value.

* `POINT`, `LINESTRING`, and `POLYGON`, which are the most basic types and can only hold specific types of geometry values.

   * `POINT`: represents a point in a coordinate system. For example, `POINT(50 60)` specifies a longitude value and a latitude value, which are separated by a space.
   * `LINESTRING`: represents a line that consists of a series of points connected together. For example, `LINESTRING(30 20,10 30,50 50)` specifies a line consisting of three points separated by commas (,). Each point consists of a longitude value and a latitude value separated by a space, which is consistent with the `POINT` format.
   * `POLYGON`: represents a simple or solid polygon, which can be open or boundary only, such as a boundary-only polygon `POLYGON((0 0,10 0,10 10,0 10))`.

`GEOMETRY` is the base class of all spatial types, and types such as `POINT`, `LINESTRING`, and `POLYGON` are subclasses of `GEOMETRY`.

## Collection types

These types hold collections of values, such as:

* `MULTIPOINT`, `MULTILINESTRING`, and `MULTIPOLYGON`, which hold collections of spatial data of a certain base type.

   * `MULTIPOINT`: represents a collection of points, such as `MULTIPOINT(10 0),(5 10),(25 5),(20 5)` and `MULTIPOINT(10 0,5 10,25 5,20 5)`.
   * `MULTILINESTRING`: represents a collection of lines, such as `MULTILINESTRING((0 0,15 5,10 10),(30 20,10 30,40 40))`.
   * `MULTIPOLYGON`: represents a collection of graphs, such as `MULTIPOLYGON(((30 20, 45 40, 10 40,30 20)),((15 5,40 10,10 20,5 10,15 5)))` and `MULTIPOLYGON(((40 40,20 45,45 30,40 40)),((20 35,10 30,10 10,30 5,45 20,20 35),(30 20,20 15,20 25,30 20)))`.

* `GEOMETRYCOLLECTION` can hold a collection of objects of any spatial data type, such as `GEOMETRYCOLLECTION(POINT(40 10),LINESTRING(10 10,20 20,10 40),POLYGON((40 40,20 45,45 30,40 40)))`.

`MULTIPOINT`, `MULTILINESTRING`, `MULTIPOLYGON`, and `GEOMETRYCOLLECTION` are value collection data types holding vales of the `POINT`, `LINESTRING`, or `POLYGON` type.

## SRID attribute

The `SRID` attribute defines a value in the spatial reference system (SRS) on a column of the spatial type. A column that defines the `SRID` attribute has the following two characteristics:

* The `SRID` value of the spatial object written to the column must be consistent with the `SRID` attribute defined for the column. Otherwise, the write operation fails.
* The spatial index defined on this column can take effect during spatial queries.

## Example

A field of the spatial type supports the `nullable` attribute and the `SRID` attribute of a space coordinate system. Here is an example:

```shell
obclient [test]> CREATE TABLE tbl1_g(g GEOMETRY NOT NULL SRID 0);
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```