Empty a table 
==================================

When you no longer need the data in a table, you can empty it. Emptying a table means deleting all the rows in the table. 

OceanBase Database allows you to use the `TRUNCATE TABLE` or the `DELETE FROM` statement to empty a table. After a table is emptied, the table structure is retained, including its partitioning information. From a logical perspective, using `TRUNCATE TABLE` and using `DELETE FROM` to delete all the rows in a table yield the same effect. 

Use the TRUNCATE TABLE statement 
-----------------------------------------------------

The `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement provides a quick and effective method to delete all rows from a table. At the same time, `TRUNCATE TABLE` is a data definition language (DDL) statement. It does not generate rollback information. 

To execute the `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement on a specified table, you must have the permission to delete and create the table. 

```sql
obclient>TRUNCATE TABLE table_name;
```



Use the DELETE FROM statement 
--------------------------------------------------

You can also use `DELETE FROM` to delete the rows in a table. 

Example:

```sql
obclient>DELETE FROM table_name;
```



Using `DELETE FROM` to empty a table that has many rows consumes a lot of system resources.

Differences between TRUNCATE TABLE and DELETE FROM 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

`TRUNCATE TABLE` and `DELETE FROM` have the following differences:

* The `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement deletes a table and creates it again. It is much faster than deleting data row by row.

  

* The output of `TRUNCATE TABLE` always indicates that 0 rows were affected.

  

* When you use `TRUNCATE TABLE`, the table management program does not record the last `AUTO_INCREMENT` value, but resets it to zero.

  

* You cannot perform the `TRUNCATE TABLE` operation on a table that is involved in a transaction or locked.

  

* If the table definition file is valid, you can use the `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement to recreate the table as an empty table, even if the data or indexes are corrupted.

  



