|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Manage directory objects

The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database allows you to map a folder on a shared file system, such as Network File System (NFS), to a database directory object. Directory objects are mainly used in the `UTL_FILE` system package.

## Create a directory object

You can execute the `CREATE DIRECTORY` statement to create a directory object in OceanBase Database. A created directory object specifies an alias for a folder on the shared file system.

### Considerations

Take note of the following rules when you create a directory object:

* OceanBase Database does not automatically create folders in the specified file system path, such as `/usr/sqldump`. You must manually create folders. For example, you can run the `mkdir` command to create a folder.

* OceanBase Database does not check or determine whether the specified file system path exists or whether read/write permissions on this path are obtained.

* As OceanBase Database is a distributed database system, you must make sure that all OBServer nodes can access the same absolute path. In general, you can specify a path on a shared file system, such as NFS, as the file system path in the statement that is used to create a directory object.

* You have the `CREATE ANY DIRECTORY` privilege.

* When you create a directory object, you must use the global variable `secure_file_priv` to specify the system path to the files to be accessed.

   The global variable `secure_file_priv` specifies the path that can be accessed during data import or export. For more information about `secure_file_priv`, see [secure_file_priv](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/200.system-variable/300.global-system-variable/11500.secure_file_priv-global.md).

   Methods for adjusting the log archiving concurrency:

   1. Log on as the administrator to an Oracle tenant in the cluster by using a local Unix socket on the OBServer node.

      Here is an example:

      ```shell
      obclient -S /home/admin/oceanbase/run/sql.sock -uroot@sys -p********
      ```

      For more information about how to connect to OceanBase Database by using a local Unix socket, see [secure_file_priv](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/200.system-variable/300.global-system-variable/11500.secure_file_priv-global.md).

   2. Set the accessible file system path to `/usr/sqldump`.

      ```sql
      SET GLOBAL secure_file_priv = "/usr/sqldump";
      ```

   After the statement is executed, you must restart the session for the modification to take effect.

### Syntax and example

The syntax for creating a directory object is as follows:

```sql
CREATE [OR REPLACE] DIRECTORY <directory object name> AS <file system path>;
```

In the syntax, `OR REPLACE` indicates that if the corresponding directory object already exists, the original directory object definition is replaced with the new file system path.

Example: Create a directory object named `sql_file_dir`:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE DIRECTORY sql_file_dir AS '/usr/sqldump';
```

## Drop a directory object

You can execute the `DROP DIRECTORY` statement to drop a directory object from OceanBase Database. To drop a directory object, ensure that you have the `DROP ANY DIRECTORY` privilege.

### Considerations

When you drop a directory object, note that:

* If a directory object is dropped, the folder that the directory object maps to on the shared file system is not dropped.

* To drop a directory object, you must have the `DROP ANY DIRECTORY` system privilege.

* Do not drop a directory object when PL is accessing files in the shared file system.

### Syntax and example

The syntax for dropping a directory object is as follows:

```sql
DROP DIRECTORY <Directory object name>;
```

Example: Drop the directory object named `sql_file_dir`:

```sql
DROP DIRECTORY sql_file_dir;
```

## Directory object-related views

After a directory object is created, you can check the status of the directory object based on the following views:

* `DBA_DIRECTORIES`

   The `DBA_DIRECTORIES` view displays the definitions of all directory objects under a tenant. Only the `sys` user and users that have query permissions on this view can access this view.

   | **Column** | **Type** | **Description** |
   |----------------|----------------|-----------------|
   | OWNER | VARCHAR2(128) | The owner of the directory. |
   | DIRECTORY_NAME | VARCHAR2(128) | The name of the directory. |
   | DIRECTORY_PATH | VARCHAR2(4000) | The path of the directory. |
   | ORIGIN_CON_ID | NUMBER(38) | The ID of the tenant. |

* `ALL_DIRECTORIES`

   The `ALL_DIRECTORIES` view displays the definitions of the directory objects that are accessible to the current user.

   | **Column** | **Type** | **Description** |
   |----------------|----------------|-----------------|
   | OWNER | VARCHAR2(128) | The owner of the directory. |
   | DIRECTORY_NAME | VARCHAR2(128) | The name of the directory. |
   | DIRECTORY_PATH | VARCHAR2(4000) | The path of the directory. |
   | ORIGIN_CON_ID | NUMBER(38) | The ID of the tenant. |
