|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Create a user

This topic describes how to create a user.

## Privilege to create a user

You may need to create users and grant them privileges in OceanBase Database as needed. To create a user, you must have the `CREATE USER` privilege.

By default, only cluster and tenant administrators have the `CREATE USER` privilege. Other users can create a user only after they are granted the `CREATE USER` privilege. For more information, see [Modify user privileges](../300.permission-of-oracle-mode/700.modify-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Naming conventions for usernames

When you specify a name for a user, note the following:

* Unique username in a tenant

   Usernames are unique within a tenant, but users in different tenants can have the same username. Therefore, a user is uniquely identified globally in the system in the `username@tenant name` format.

* Naming conventions

   * When you create a user through the OBClient or OceanBase Developer Center (ODC), the username cannot exceed 64 bytes in length.

   * When you create a user through the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console, the username must be 2 to 64 characters in length and start with a letter, and can contain letters, digits, and underscores (`_`).

## Create a user with the minimum database privileges by using an SQL statement

You can use the `CREATE USER` statement to create a user. Creating a user requires the system privilege `CREATE USER`. When creating a user, it is recommended to adhere to the principle of least privilege, which means that each user should only have the minimum privileges necessary to perform their tasks.

The SQL statement is as follows:

```sql
   CREATE USER user_name [host_name] IDENTIFIED BY password [REQUIRE {NONE | SSL | X509 | tls_option_list}]
 [PROFILE user_profile] [DEFAULT TABLESPACE table_space] [PRIMARY_ZONE 'zone_name']

password:
    STR_VALUE

tls_option_list:
      tls_option
    | tls_option_list, tls_option

tls_option:
      CIPHER STR_VALUE
    | ISSUER STR_VALUE
    | SUBJECT STR_VALUE
```

where

* `user_name`: specifies the username. If a user with the same name already exists, the system will report an error.

* `host_name`: specifies the IP address of the host to which the user belongs, in the `@xx.xx.xx.xx` format.

* `IDENTIFIED BY`: specifies a password for the user. This parameter is required in Oracle mode.

* `REQUIRE`: specifies the encryption protocol for the user. Valid values: `NONE`, `SSL`, `X509`, and `tls_option_list`.

* `PROFILE`: specifies the profile for the user. If this parameter is not specified, the `DEFAULT` configuration file will be used. By default, there is no limit to all settings in the `DEFAULT` configuration file.

* `DEFAULT TABLESPACE table_space`: specifies the default tablespace for the user. This parameter is generally meaningless.

* `PRIMARY_ZONE`: specifies the primary zone for the user.

   For more information about the primary zone, see [Primary zone](../../../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/500.distributed-database-objects/200.cluster-architecture.md).

Create a user named `test2` and grant the user only the database connection privilege.

1. Log on to an Oracle tenant of the cluster using the `SYS` user.

2. Execute the following statement to create a user named `test2`:

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE USER test2 IDENTIFIED BY ******;
   ```

   For more information about the `CREATE USER` statement, see [CREATE USER](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/2700.create-user-of-oracle-mode.md).

3. Execute the following statement to grant the database connection privilege to the `test2` user:

   ```sql
   obclient>GRANT CREATE SESSION TO test2;
   ```

   For more information about the `GRANT` statement, see [GRANT](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/300.dcl-of-oracle-mode/1700.grant-of-oracle-mode.md).
