|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Grant direct privileges

User privileges are classified into direct and indirect privileges. Direct privileges are the system or object privileges that are granted to a user. Indirect privileges are those that are granted to roles of a user. Most operations can be performed with direct or indirect privileges. This topic describes how to grant direct privileges to users.

Direct privileges are required for the following scenarios:

* When creating a view, the privileges to access the objects in the view are required.
* When executing statements in a named PL block with the definers' rights, the privileges for the statements are required.

## Prerequisites

* When granting an object privilege, you must have the `GRANT OPTION` or `GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE` privilege, and you must be the owner of the object or have the privileges to be granted. For example, if the `test1` user wants to grant the `SELECT` privilege on table `t1` to the `test2` user, the `test1` user must have the `GRANT OPTION` or `GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE` privilege, and must be the owner of the object or have the `SELECT` privilege on table `t1`.

* When granting a system privilege or a role, you must have the privilege or role to be granted and have the `GRANT OPTION`, `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE`, or `GRANT ANY ROLE` privilege.

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../300.permission-of-oracle-mode/600.view-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). If you do not have the required privileges, contact the administrator to obtain the privileges. For information about how to view your roles, see [View roles](400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/600.view-roles-of-oracle-mode.md).

### Considerations

When you grant privileges, note the following:

* When granting multiple privileges to a user at the same time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* If a user has been granted a privilege, the privilege takes effect only after the user is reconnected to OceanBase Database.

### Examples

* Grant system privileges

   To grant the `CREATE SEQUENCE` privilege to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient> GRANT CREATE SEQUENCE TO test;
   ```

* Grant object privileges

   To grant the `SELECT` and `UPDATE` privileges on the `emp_view` view to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient> GRANT SELECT, UPDATE ON emp_view TO test;
   ```

For more information about the `GRANT` statement, see [GRANT](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/300.dcl-of-oracle-mode/1700.grant-of-oracle-mode.md).
