# Privilege delegation

Privilege delegation resolves the issue of centralized authorization. By specifying `WITH ADMIN OPTION` or `WITH GRANT OPTION` during authorization, users can be granted the permission to delegate corresponding privileges to other users. When revoking object privileges, the corresponding privileges that the user has delegated to other users will also be revoked. For example, if user A grants privilege to user B and user B grants privilege to user C, when user A revokes privilege from user B, privilege of user C will also be revoked. Revoking system privileges does not revoke delegated privileges.

## Examples

1. Log on to an Oracle tenant of a cluster as the `sys` user. Create users A, B, and C, and grant all the users the `CREATE SESSION` privilege, and grant user A the `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE` privilege. 

   ```shell
   obclient > CREATE USER A IDENTIFIED BY ******;
   obclient > CREATE USER B IDENTIFIED BY ******;
   obclient > CREATE USER C IDENTIFIED BY ******;
   obclient > GRANT CREATE SESSION TO A;
   obclient > GRANT CREATE SESSION TO B;
   obclient > GRANT CREATE SESSION TO C;
   obclient > GRANT GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE TO A;
   ```

2. Create a table named `test` under the SYS user. 

   ```shell
   obclient > CREATE TABLE test (id number(10),name varchar2(10));
   Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.050 sec)
   ```

3. Grant user A the privilege to query the `test` table of the SYS user. 

   ```shell
   obclient > GRANT SELECT ON sys.test TO A;
   ```

4. Log on as user A and grant user B the privilege to query the `test` table using the `WITH GRANT OPTION` cause, so that user B can grant the same privilege to other users. 

   ```shell
   obclient > GRANT SELECT ON sys.test TO B with grant option;
   ```

5. Switch to user B and query the `test` table. 

   ```shell
   obclient > SELECT * FROM sys.test
   ```

6. Log on as user B and grant user C the privilege to query the `test` table. 

   ```shell
   obclient > GRANT SELECT ON sys.test TO C;
   ```
   If you grant the privilege to user B without using the `WITH GRANT OPTION` clause, the following error message will be returned when user B attempts to grant the same privilege to user C:

   ```shell
   obclient > GRANT SELECT on sys.test TO C ;
   ORA-01031: insufficient privileges
   ```
7. Switch to user C and query the `test` table. 

   ```shell
   obclient > SELECT * FROM sys.test;
   ```
   Privilege delegation is successful if querying the `test` table is possible.


