| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | Oracle Mode |

# Revoke privileges

You can revoke privileges from a user.

## Prerequisites

* When you revoke an object privilege, you must have the privilege to be revoked. For example, for the `test1` user to revoke the `SELECT` privilege on table `t1` from the `test2` user, the `test1` user must have the `SELECT` privilege on table `t1`. In addition, you must have the `GRANT OPTION` or `GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE` privilege.

* When you revoke a system privilege or a role, you must have the privilege or role to be revoked and have the `GRANT OPTION`, `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE`, or `GRANT ANY ROLE` privilege.

* To revoke the `ALL PRIVILEGES` and `GRANT OPTION` privileges, you must have the global `GRANT OPTION` privilege or the `UPDATE` and `DELETE` privileges on the table.

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../300.permission-of-oracle-mode/600.view-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). If you do not have the required privileges, contact the administrator to obtain the privileges.

## Considerations

* When you revoke multiple privileges of a user, the privileges must be separated with commas (,).

* When you revoke privileges of multiple users, the usernames must be separated with commas (,).

* If `GRANT OPTION` is not specified when you grant privileges to a user, grant revocation does not extend to dependent users. For example, if the `test1` user has granted some privileges to the `test2` user, when the privileges of the `test1` user are revoked, the privileges granted to the `test2` user will not be revoked.

### Examples

* Revoke system privileges

   Revoke the `CREATE SEQUENCE` privilege of the `test` user.

   ```shell
   obclient> REVOKE CREATE SEQUENCE FROM test;
   ```

* Revoke object privileges

   Revoke the `SELECT` and `UPDATE` privileges on the `emp_view` view from the `test` user.

   ```shell
   obclient> REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES FROM user_name;
   ```

For more information about the `REVOKE` statement, see [REVOKE](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/300.dcl-of-oracle-mode/2900.revoke-of-oracle-mode.md).