# obdiag

In OceanBase Database, a native distributed database system, root cause analysis for faults is complex because many factors may be involved, such as the server environment, parameters, and running load. Experts must collect and analyze extensive information during troubleshooting. Therefore, OceanBase Diagnostic Tool (obdiag) is introduced to help efficiently collect information scattered on various nodes. The obdiag code is fully open-source and available on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase-diagnostic-tool).

## What is obdiag?

obdiag is a CLI diagnostic tool designed for OceanBase Database. obdiag can scan, collect, and analyze information such as logs, SQL audit records, and process stack information of OceanBase Database. You can use obdiag to collect and analyze diagnostic information with a few clicks when your OceanBase cluster is deployed in different modes, for example, by using OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) or OceanBase Deployer (OBD), or manually deployed based on relevant documentation.

## Features

obdiag has the following features:

  * One-click cluster inspection: obdiag supports one-click inspections through command lines to discover existing or potential causes of abnormal cluster behavior and provide operational recommendations.
  * One-click information collection: obdiag supports one-click collection of diagnostic information scattered across different nodes through command lines, packaging it for transmission back to the obdiag machine.
  * One-click diagnostic analysis: obdiag supports one-click analysis of OceanBase logs through command lines to identify past error messages, and also supports one-click end-to-end diagnosis based on trace.log.

## Release notes

For information about the release notes of obdig, see [Release note](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-obdiag-en-10000000001143808).

## References

For more information about obdiag, see the [obdiag documentation](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-obdiag-en-10000000001143804).