| description |  |
|---|---|
| keywords |  |
| dir-name |  |
| dir-name-en |  |
| tenant-type | Oracle Mode |

# Overview

A materialized view log (mlog) records the incremental data updates of a user table, that is the base table of the materialized view, to support quick refresh of the materialized view. An mlog is a record table that tracks changes to the base table and applies these changes to the corresponding materialized view to achieve quick refresh of the materialized view. 

## Limitations

* You can create a materialized view log only on a normal user table. 
* You can bind a base table to only one materialized view log. 
* When you create a materialized view log, if a transaction is running on the base table, the materialized view log create operation is blocked until the transaction is completed. 
* Materialized view logs do not support `LOB` columns. 
* Materialized view logs do not support the JSON, XML, GIS, or UDT data type. 
* Materialized view logs do not support generated columns, including virtual columns and non-virtual columns. 
* Materialized view logs do not support partitioning. 
* The name of a materialized view log cannot exceed 64 characters in length, which is the same as that of a normal table. In addition, the name of a materialized view log consists of a prefix `mlog$_` and the name of the base table. Therefore, if you want to create a materialized view log on a table, the table name cannot exceed 58 characters. 

* Materialized view logs do not support table-level restore. 
* Materialized view logs that are separately dropped are not moved to the recycle bin. 
* Materialized view logs do not support the `ALTER` operation. 
* You cannot create indexes on materialized view logs. 
* Materialized view logs do not support DML operations. 

## User privileges

* You need the `SELECT` privilege on the base table and the `CREATE TABLE` privilege to create a materialized view log. 
* You need the `DROP TABLE` privilege to drop a materialized view log. 
* A materialized view log only supports the `SELECT` privilege. Other DML operations are not supported. 

## Schema definition of a materialized view log

You can create only one materialized view log for a table. The schema name of the materialized view log is `mlog$_table`, in which `table` is the name of the base table. 

The following table describes the schema definition of a materialized view log.

| **Column** | **Type** | **Description** |
|-------------|----------|----------|
| m_row$$ | uint64_t | If the base table does not have a primary key, the rowid column is used as the hidden primary key of the base table.  |
| sequence$$ | in64_t | The update sequence of multiple rows in a transaction. The sequence is maintained at the SQL layer, obtained from trans_desc, and then written to the storage layer.  |
| dmltype$$ | char(1) | The operation type. Valid values: `I`, `D` and `U`, which indicates `INSERT`, `DELETE`, and `UPDATE` respectively.  |
| old_new$$ | char(1) | Indicates whether the value is an old or new value in an `UPDATE` statement. For each `UPDATE` operation on one data row in the base table, the system writes two rows of data to the materialized view log. The row with the old value is marked with `O`. The row with the new value is marked with `N`.  |
| primary key | The same as the base table | The primary key of the base table. If the base table has a composite primary key, the value contains multiple columns.  |
| column 1 | The same as the base table | The normal column 1 in the base table.  |
| ... | N/A | N/A |
| column N | The same as the base table | The normal column N in the base table.  |
| ora_rowscn | N/A | The pseudocolumn, which is recorded in a hidden column at the storage layer and can be read.  |

## Use an existing materialized view log

* You can directly query the schema and data of a materialized view log. 
* You can use the `DBMS_MVIEW.PURGE_LOG(table_name)` statement to purge a materialized view log. 
* When the size of a materialized view log exceeds the available disk space, an error is reported. In this case, you must drop the materialized view log and create a new one. 

## Impact of base table operations on the materialized view log

### DML operations on the base table

The materialized view log of a base table records the following DML operations on the base table: `INSERT`, `DELETE`, and `UPDATE`.

* If you perform an `INSERT` operation on the base table, the system inserts a record to the materialized view log for each inserted row of data. In the record, the `dmltype$$` column value is `I`, and the `old_new$$` column value is `N`. 
* If you perform a `DELETE` operation on the base table, the system inserts a record to the materialized view log for each deleted row of data. In the record, the `dmltype$$` column value is `D`, and the `old_new$$` column value is `O`. 
* If you perform an `UPDATE` operation on the base table, the system inserts two records to the materialized view log for each modified row of data. In the first record, the old value before the `UPDATE` operation is recorded, the `dmltype$$` column value is `U`, and the `old_new$$` column value is `O`. In the second record, the new value after the `UPDATE` operation is recorded, the `dmltype$$` column value is `U`, and the `old_new$$` column value is `N`. 

### DDL operations on the base table

Before you drop a base table, you need to drop its materialized view log first. Otherwise, an error is reported. This is because the materialized view log is bound to the base table. 

## References

* [Create a materialized view log](200.create-materialized-views-log-of-oracle-mode.md)
* [Drop a materialized view log](300.delete-materialized-views-log-of-oracle-mode.md)
