# Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using a MySQL client

You can use a MySQL client to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database. This topic describes the prerequisites and connection procedure.

## Prerequisites

* The MySQL client is installed locally. OceanBase Database supports MySQL clients of the following versions: V5.5, V5.6, and V5.7.

* The environment variable PATH contains the directory where the MySQL client is located.

## Procedure

1. Open a CLI terminal.

2. Enter the operating parameters of MySQL in the following format:

   ```sql
   $mysql -h192.168.0.0 -uroot@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
   ```

   > **Note**
   >
   > Parameters
   >
   ><ul>
   > <li>-h: specifies the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an OBProxy. </li>
   > <li>-u: specifies a tenant account in the <b>Username</b>@<b>Tenant name</b>#<b>Cluster name</b> or <b>Cluster name</b>:<b>Tenant name</b>:<b>Username</b> format. The default username of the administrator of the MySQL tenant is root. </li>
   > <li>-P: specifies the port for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is also the listening port of the OBProxy. Default value: 2883, which can be customized. </li>
   > <li>-p: specifies the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible. </li>
   > <li>-c: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of MySQL. </li>
   > <li>-A: specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to a MySQL tenant. </li>
   > <li>oceanbase: specifies the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to the name of the corresponding business database. </li>
   > </ul>

3. After the connection is created, the following default OBClient CLI prompt appears on the CLI terminal:

   ```sql
   MySQL [oceanbase]>
   ```

4. To exit the OceanBase CLI terminal, enter `Exit` and press Enter, or press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>D</kbd>.

## Example

The following sample code shows how to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database from a MySQL client:

```sql
$mysql -h192.168.0.0 -uroot@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
Welcome to the MariaDB monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 62488
Server version: 5.6.25 OceanBase 2.2.20 (...) (Built Aug 10 2019 15:27:33)
<Omitted>
Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.
MySQL [oceanbase]> SHOW DATABASES;
 +--------------------+
| Database           |
+--------------------+
| oceanbase          |
| information_schema |
| mysql              |
| test               |
+--------------------+
4 rows in set
MySQL [oceanbase]> exit
Bye
```
