# Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient

This topic describes how to connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient.

## Prerequisites

Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the installation package of OBClient and install it correctly.

## Procedure

1. Open a CLI terminal.

2. Specify the operating parameters of OBClient in the following format:

   ```sql
   $obclient -h10.0.0.0 -P2881 -uroot@MySQL -p****** -A
   ```

   > **Note**
   >
   > Parameters
   >
   ><ul>
   > <li>-h: specifies the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an OBProxy. </li>
   > <li>-u: specifies a tenant account in the <b>Username</b>@<b>Tenant name</b>#<b>Cluster name</b> or <b>Cluster name</b>:<b>Tenant name</b>:<b>Username</b> format. The default administrator username of an Oracle tenant is sys. </li>
   > <li>-P: specifies the port for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is also the listening port of the OBProxy. Default value: 2883, which can be customized. </li>
   > <li>-p: specifies the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible. </li>
   > <li>-A: specifies not to retrieve the information of all tables to ensure a quick logon when you connect to OceanBase Database. </li>
   > </ul>


3. After the connection is created, the following default OBClient CLI prompt appears on the CLI terminal:

   ```sql
   obclient>
   ```

4. To exit the OBClient CLI prompt, enter `exit` and press Enter, or press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>D</kbd>.

## Example

Connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient

```sql
$obclient -h10.0.0.0 -P2881 -uroot@MySQL -p****** -A
obclient: [Warning] Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
Welcome to the OceanBase monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your OceanBase connection id is 3221666749
Server version: 5.7.25 OceanBase 3.2.1 (...) (Built Sep 30 2021 19:59:46)

<Omitted>

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient> SELECT SYSDATE();
+---------------------+
| SYSDATE()           |
+---------------------+
| 2021-10-22 15:51:13 |
+---------------------+
1 row in set
```
