|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Modify the SHARDING attribute of a table group

After you create a table group, you can modify its `SHARDING` attribute based on business needs.

## Limitations

During the upgrade of OceanBase Database, it is prohibited to use the `ALTER TABLEGROUP` statement to modify the `SHARDING` attribute of a table group.

## Modification rules

Before you modify the `SHARDING` attribute of a table group, check whether the table group contains tables. If yes, view the partition information of the tables. For more information about how to view tables in a table group, see [Query information about a table group](../400.manage-table-groups-of-mysql-mode/300.view-the-information-of-a-table-group-of-mysql-mode.md).

If the table group does not contain tables, you can modify the `SHARDING` attribute as needed. If the table group contains tables, modify the `SHARDING` attribute of the table group based on the following rules:

* You can directly change the value of the `SHARDING` attribute to `NONE` without considering the partition definition of tables in the table group.

* When you change the value of the `SHARDING` attribute to `PARTITION`, note that:

   * If the table group contains only non-partitioned tables, you can directly change the attribute value.

   * If the table group contains both non-partitioned and partitioned tables, you cannot modify the attribute.

   * If the table group contains only partitioned or subpartitioned tables, make sure that all tables in the table group have the same partitioning type, partition count, and partition value. Otherwise, you cannot modify the attribute.

* When you change the value of the `SHARDING` attribute to `ADAPTIVE`, note that:

   * If the table group contains only non-partitioned tables, you can directly change the attribute value.

   * If the table group contains both non-partitioned and partitioned tables, you cannot modify the attribute.

   * If the table group contains both partitioned and subpartitioned tables, you cannot modify the attribute.

   * If the table group contains only partitioned tables, all the tables must have the same partitioning type, partition count, and partition value. Otherwise, you cannot modify the attribute.

   * If all tables in the table group are subpartitioned tables, make sure that all partitioned tables and subpartitioned tables correspond to the same partition type, number of partitions, and partition values.

## Modify the SHARDING attribute

The SQL syntax for modifying the `SHARDING` attribute of a table group is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLEGROUP tablegroup_name tablegroup_option;

tablegroup_option:
SHARDING = 'NONE'
SHARDING = 'PARTITION'
SHARDING = 'ADAPTIVE'
```

Some notes about this:

* To execute this statement, you must have the global `ALTER` privilege.

* `tablegroup_name` specifies the name of the table group to be modified.

* `SHARDING` specifies the `SHARDING` attribute of the table group. You must follow specific rules when you modify the `SHARDING` attribute of the table group.

Here is an example:

1. Create a table group named `tblgroup1` and set the `SHARDING` attribute to `PARTITION`.

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLEGROUP tblgroup1 SHARDING = 'PARTITION';
   ```

2. Create two tables named `tbl1` and `tbl2` that have the same partition definition, and add the tables to the table group `tblgroup1`.

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE tbl1 (col1 BIGINT PRIMARY KEY,col2 VARCHAR(50)) TABLEGROUP = tblgroup1
   PARTITION BY LIST(col1)
   (PARTITION p0 VALUES IN (1, 2, 3),
   PARTITION p1 VALUES IN (5, 6),
   PARTITION p2 VALUES IN (DEFAULT)
   );
   ```

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE tbl2 (col1 BIGINT PRIMARY KEY,col2 VARCHAR(50)) TABLEGROUP = tblgroup1
   PARTITION BY LIST(col1)
   (PARTITION p0 VALUES IN (1, 2, 3),
   PARTITION p1 VALUES IN (5, 6),
   PARTITION p2 VALUES IN (DEFAULT)
   );
   ```

3. Change the `SHARDING` attribute value of the table group `tblgroup1` to `ADAPTIVE`.

   ```sql
   ALTER TABLEGROUP tblgroup1 SHARDING = "ADAPTIVE";
   ```

4. View the `SHARDING` attribute of the table group.

   ```sql
   SHOW TABLEGROUPS WHERE tablegroup_name = 'tblgroup1';
   ```

   The query result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +-----------------+------------+---------------+----------+
   | Tablegroup_name | Table_name | Database_name | Sharding |
   +-----------------+------------+---------------+----------+
   | tblgroup1       | tbl1       | test          | ADAPTIVE |
   | tblgroup1       | tbl2       | test          | ADAPTIVE |
   +-----------------+------------+---------------+----------+
   2 rows in set
   ```

   The `tbl1` and `tbl2` tables in the table group are all partitioned tables and have the same partitioning type, partition count, and partition value. Therefore, the `SHARDING` attribute is successfully modified.

## References

* [Table groups](../400.manage-table-groups-of-mysql-mode/100.about-table-groups-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Create a table group](../400.manage-table-groups-of-mysql-mode/200.create-a-table-group-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Query information about a table group](../400.manage-table-groups-of-mysql-mode/300.view-the-information-of-a-table-group-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Add tables to a table group](../400.manage-table-groups-of-mysql-mode/400.add-tables-to-a-table-group-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Manage tables in a table group](../400.manage-table-groups-of-mysql-mode/600.manage-tables-within-a-table-group-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Drop a table group](../400.manage-table-groups-of-mysql-mode/700.delete-a-table-group-of-mysql-mode.md)
