|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Manually initiate a minor compaction

You can execute the `ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE` statement in the sys tenant or a user tenant to manually initiate a minor compaction at the tenant, zone, server, log stream, or partition level.

## Initiate a minor compaction from the sys tenant

You can initiate a minor compaction at the tenant, zone, server, log stream, or tablet level from the sys tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Select a proper minor compaction type as needed.

   * Initiate a minor compaction at the tenant level

      You can initiate a minor compaction for one or more tenants by using the following SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT [=] all_user | all | all_meta | tenant_name [, tenant_name ...];
      ```

      Here are some examples:

      * Initiate a minor compaction for the sys tenant

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE;
         ```

      * Initiate a minor compaction for all user tenants from the sys tenant

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT = all_user;
         ```

         or

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT = all;
         ```

          <main id="notice" type='explain'>
          <h4>Note</h4>
          <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all user tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>
          </main>

      * Initiate a minor compaction for all meta tenants from the sys tenant

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT = all_meta;
         ```

      * Initiate a minor compaction for a specified tenant from the sys tenant

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT = tenant1;
         ```

   * Initiate a minor compaction at the zone level

      You can initiate a minor compaction for a specified zone by using the following SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE ZONE [=] zone_name;
      ```

      Here is an example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE ZONE = zone1;
      ```

   * Initiate a minor compaction at the server level

      You can initiate a minor compaction for one or more specified OBServer nodes by using the following SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE SERVER = ('ip:port' [, 'ip:port'...]);
      ```

      Here is an example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE SERVER = ('xx.xx.xx.xx:2882','xx.xx.xx.xx:2882');
      ```

   * Initiate a minor compaction at the log stream level

      You can initiate a minor compaction for a specified log stream of a specified tenant by using the following SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT [=] tenant_name LS [=] ls_id;
      ```

      In the syntax, `tenant_name` specifies the name of a tenant and `ls_id` specifies the ID of a log stream in the tenant. You can query the `oceanbase.CDB_OB_TABLET_TO_LS` view for IDs of log streams.

      Here is an example:

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT = t1 LS = 1001;
      ```

      After you execute this statement, the system performs a minor compaction for all tablets in the specified log stream of the specified tenant.

   * Initiate a minor compaction at the partition level

      In OceanBase Database, each partition corresponds to one tablet.

      You can initiate a minor compaction for a specified tablet of a tenant by using the following SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT [=] tenant_name TABLET_ID = tablet_id;
      ```

      Alternatively, you can initiate a minor compaction for a specified tablet in a specified log stream of a specified tenant by using the following SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT [=] tenant_name LS [=] ls_id TABLET_ID = tablet_id;
      ```

      In the syntax, `tenant_name` specifies the name of a tenant, `ls_id` specifies the ID of a log stream in the tenant, and `tablet_id` specifies the ID of a tablet in the log stream. You can query the `CDB_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS` view for IDs of log streams and tablets. For more information about columns in the `CDB_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS` view, see [oceanbase.CDB_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS](../../../700.system-views/300.system-view-of-sys-tenant/200.dictionary-view-of-sys-tenant/17700.oceanbase-cdb_ob_table_locations-of-sys-tenant.md).


      The following example shows how to initiate a minor compaction for a specified tablet in a specified tenant:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT = tenant1 TABLET_ID = 200001;
      ```

      Here is an example of initiating a minor compaction for a specified tablet of a specified log stream in a specified tenant:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT = tenant1 LS = 1001 TABLET_ID = 200001;
      ```

## Initiate a minor compaction from a user tenant

You can initiate a minor compaction only for the current tenant at the tenant level or partition level from a user tenant.

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant or an Oracle tenant of the cluster as the tenant administrator.

2. Select a proper minor compaction type as needed.

   * Initiate a minor compaction at the tenant level

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE;
      ```

   * Initiate a minor compaction at the partition level

      In OceanBase Database, each partition corresponds to one tablet.

      You can initiate a minor compaction for a specified tablet in the current tenant by using the following SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TABLET_ID = tablet_id;
      ```

      In the syntax, `tablet_id` can be queried from the `DBA_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS` view. For more information about columns in the `DBA_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS` view, see [DBA_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS](../../../700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/17800.oceanbase-dba_ob_table_locations-of-mysql-mode.md).

      Here is an example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TABLET_ID = 200001;
      ```

## What to do next

After you initiate a minor compaction, you can view the information about it. For more information, see [View minor compaction information](../100.dump-management/400.view-dump-information.md).

## References

* [Automatically trigger a minor compaction](../100.dump-management/200.automatically-trigger-dump.md)

* [Modify minor compaction settings](../100.dump-management/500.modify-dump-configuration.md)