# Overview

You can deploy OceanBase Community Edition in the following ways:

* Quick deployment: If you want to quickly deploy a standalone edition to experience its features, deploy OceanBase Community Edition by referring to the quick deployment solution.
* Standard deployment: If you want to perform standard deployment in a production environment, deploy OceanBase Community Edition by referring to the standard deployment solution.
* Deployment for online experience: If you want to experience the database online, deploy OceanBase Community Edition by referring to the online experience deployment solution.

## Quick deployment

For non-natively supported operating systems such as Mac OS and Windows, we recommend that you deploy the database by using the Docker image. For more information, see [Quick experience](../200.quick-start/100.Quickly-experience-OceanBase.md).
For natively supported operating systems such as Linux, we recommend that you deploy the database by using OceanBase Deployer (OBD) in a one-click manner. For more information, see [Quick experience](../200.quick-start/100.Quickly-experience-OceanBase.md).

## Standard deployment

In an offline environment, we recommend that you use OBD for standard deployment. For more information, see [Deploy OceanBase Database offline](200.local-deployment/500.deploy-oceanbase-database-in-the-production-environment.md).
In a Kubernetes environment, we recommend that you use ob-operator for deployment. For more information, see [Deploy OceanBase Database in a Kubernetes cluster](../400.installation-and-deployment/300.deploy-in-the-k8s-cluster.md).

## Deployment for online experience

If you only want to experience the features online, you can use the OceanBase Community Edition experience site.
To visit the OceanBase Community Edition experience site, click [here](https://play.oceanbase.com/#/odc/connections).
