Deploy OceanBase Database in the production environment 
============================================================================



Glossary 
-----------------------------

* Central control server

  The server that stores the installation package and cluster configuration information of OceanBase Database.
  

* Target server

  The server where you want to install OceanBase Database.
  

* OBD

  The abbreviation of OceanBase Deployer, an installation and deployment tool for open source software of OceanBase.
  

* ODP

  The abbreviation of OceanBase Database Proxy, a high-performance reverse proxy server designed for OceanBase Database.
  




Prerequisites 
----------------------------------

Before you connect to OceanBase Database, make sure that the following prerequisites are satisfied:

* Your servers meet the software and hardware requirements. For more information, see [Resource preparation](../400.installation-and-deployment/300.resource-preparation.md).

  

* You have completed the following operations in your production environment:

  * You have viewed the resources. For more information, see [View resources](../400.installation-and-deployment/400.view-resources-optional.md).

    
  
  * You have enabled using SSH to log on without a password. For more information, see [Use SSH to log on without a password](../400.installation-and-deployment/500.use-ssh-to-log-on-without-a-password-optional.md).

    
  
  * You have configured the clock source. For more information, see [Configure the clock source](../400.installation-and-deployment/600.configure-the-clock-source-optional.md).

    
  
  * You have planned the disk usage. For more information, see [Plan the disks](../400.installation-and-deployment/700.plan-disks-optional.md).

    
  
  * You have configured the limits.conf file. For more information, see [Configure the limits.conf file](../400.installation-and-deployment/800.configure-limits-conf-optional.md).

    
  
  * You have configured the sysctl.conf file. For more information, see [Configure the sysctl.conf file](../400.installation-and-deployment/900.configure-sysctl-conf-optional.md).

    
  
  * You have disabled the firewall and SELinux. For more information, see [Disable the firewall and SELinux](../400.installation-and-deployment/1000.disable-the-firewall-and-selinux-optional.md).

    
  
  * You have created a user. For more information, see [Create a user](../400.installation-and-deployment/1100.create-a-user-optional.md).

    
  

  




Deployment modes 
-------------------------------------

This section describes a three-replica deployment mode. We recommend that you use four servers. Notes:

* Deploy ODP on one server.

  

* Deploy the OceanBase cluster by using the other three servers.

  



**Note**



* Deploy your applications on the ODP server to minimize the latency of access between applications and the ODP. You can deploy an ODP on each application server. In this example, the ODP is deployed only on a separate server for ease of use.

  

* Hardware requirements of the ODP server can be different from those of servers for the deployment of OceanBase Database. A server with 4 to 8 CPU cores and 16 GB to 64 GB memory is enough for the deployment of ODP.

  




Install OBD 
--------------------------------

**Note**



You need to install OBD only on the central control server.

### Install OBD online 

If the server has access to the Internet and allows installation of third-party software from a YUM repository, you can run the following command to install OBD from the official source of OceanBase software:

```unknow
yum install -y yum-utils
yum-config-manager --add-repo https://mirrors.aliyun.com/oceanbase/OceanBase.repo
yum install -y ob-deploy
```




**Notice**



This operation requires root permissions and is supported only on Anolis, CentOS, and RedHat.

After you run the `obd cluster deploy` command, OBD checks the target server for the OceanBase Database installation package. If the package does not exist, OBD automatically obtains the package from the YUM repository.

### Install OBD offline 

If the server does not have Internet access, you can download the OBD installation package from the official website of OceanBase Database. For more information, see [Download installation packages](../400.installation-and-deployment/200.download-installation-packages.md). After you have downloaded the OBD installation package, copy it to your central control server.

In CentOS or RedHat, run the following command to install OBD:

```unknow
yum install ob-deploy-1.1.0-1.el7.x86_64.rpm
```



In Ubuntu or Debian, run the following command to install OBD:

```unknow
alien --scripts -i ob-deploy-1.1.0-1.el7.x86_64.rpm
```


**Notice**



This operation requires root permissions.




Install OBClient 
-------------------------------------

You need to install the OBClient only on the central control server. 
**Notice**



You must first download LibOBClient, the dependencies package of the OBClient. For more information, see [Download installation packages](../400.installation-and-deployment/200.download-installation-packages.md).

### Install OBClient online 

Run the following command to install OBClient online:

```unknow
yum install -y libobclient
yum install -y obclient
```


**Notice**



This operation requires root permissions.

### Install OBClient offline 

If the server does not have Internet access, you can download the OBClient installation package from the official website of OceanBase Database. For more information, see [Download installation packages](../400.installation-and-deployment/200.download-installation-packages.md). After you have downloaded the OBClient installation package, copy it to your central control server.

In CentOS or RedHat, run the following command to install OBClient:

```unknow
yum install libobclient-2.0.0-2.el7.x86_64.rpm
yum install obclient-2.0.0-2.el7.x86_64.rpm
```



In Ubuntu or Debian, run the following command to install OBClient:

```unknow
alien --scripts -i libobclient-2.0.0-2.el7.x86_64.rpm
alien --scripts -i obclient-2.0.0-2.el7.x86_64.rpm
```


**Notice**



This operation requires root permissions.

Install OceanBase Database and ODP 
-------------------------------------------------------

To ensure data security, we recommend that you switch to a non-root user before you install OceanBase Database and ODP. To install OceanBase Database and ODP, download the installation packages of OceanBase Database, OBLibs, and ODP from the official website of OceanBase Database. For more information, see [Download installation packages](../400.installation-and-deployment/200.download-installation-packages.md). After you have downloaded the required installation packages, copy them to your central control server. If you install OceanBase Database and ODP online, skip Steps 1 to 3.

Go to the directory of the installation packages and install OceanBase Database and ODP by taking the following steps:

* Delete the remote repository

  ```unknow
  rm -fr ~/.obd/mirror/remote/*.repo
  ```

  

  You need to delete the remote repository if you want to install the software offline. 
  **Notice**

  

  Skip this step if you install the software online in Anolis, CentOS, or RedHat.
  




<!-- -->

* Add the installation packages to the local image

  ```unknow
  obd mirror clone *.rpm
  ```

  

* View the list of images

  ```unknow
  obd mirror list local
  ```

  

* Download configuration files

  You can download the configuration files from GitHub. Select the following configuration file based on your needs:
  * In standalone installation mode where you install OceanBase Database on a standalone server other than the central control server, download the [standalone installation configuration file](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/blob/master/example/autodeploy/single-example.yaml).

    
  
  * In distributed installation mode where you install OceanBase Database on multiple servers other than the central control server, download the [distributed installation configuration file](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/blob/master/example/autodeploy/distributed-with-obproxy-example.yaml).

    
  

  

  The sample configuration file is an automatic deployment configuration file. During the automatic deployment of OceanBase Database, the highest specifications are configured based on simple configurations and the resources of the target server, after which OceanBase Database is automatically started. For more information about the manual deployment of OceanBase Database, see [OBD Documentation](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/blob/master/README.md#use-obd-to-start-an-oceanbase-cluster). For more information about the OceanBase Database parameters, see [OceanBase Database parameters](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/blob/master/plugins/oceanbase/3.1.0/parameter.yaml).
  

* Modify the configuration file

  Take the distributed deployment of OceanBase Database and ODP as an example, perform the following steps to modify the configuration file:
  * Change the username and password

    ```unknow
    ## Only need to configure when remote login is required
    # user:
    #   username: your username
    #   password: your password if need
    #   key_file: your ssh-key file path if need
    #   port: your ssh port, default 22
    #   timeout: ssh connection timeout (second), default 30
    ```

    
  
  * Modify the IP address, `home_path`, `data_dir`, and `redo_dir` of each server

    ```unknow
    oceanbase-ce:
      servers:
        - name: z1
          # Please don't use hostname, only IP can be supported
          ip: 172.30.62.200
        - name: z2
          ip: 172.30.62.201
        - name: z3
          ip: 172.30.62.202
      global:
        # The working directory for OceanBase Database. OceanBase Database is started under this directory. This is a required field.
        home_path: /home/admin/oceanbase/ob
        # The directory for data storage. The default value is $home_path/store.
        data_dir: /data/ob
        # The directory for clog, ilog, and slog. The default value is the same as the data_dir value.
        redo_dir: /redo/ob
    ```

    
    **Note**

    

    Note that you must modify the parameter values based on your actual configuration.
    
  
  * Configure ODP and modify the IP address and home_path

    ```unknow
    obproxy:
      servers:
        - 172.30.62.203
      global:
        # The working directory for obproxy. Obproxy is started under this directory. This is a required field.
        home_path: /home/admin/oceanbase
    ```

    

    You can use the online YAML Checker to validate your configuration files. For more information, see [Online YAML Checker](https://www.bejson.com/validators/yaml_editor/).
    
  

  




Deploy the OceanBase cluster 
-------------------------------------------------

Perform the following steps to deploy the OceanBase cluster:

* Deploy the OceanBase cluster

  ```unknow
  obd cluster autodeploy obtest -c distributed-with-obproxy-example.yaml 
  ```

  

  For more information about the `obd cluster autodeploy` command, see [OBD Documentation](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/blob/master/README.md#obd-cluster-autodeploy).
  

* View the OceanBase cluster

  ```unknow
  obd cluster list
  ```

  




Modify the cluster configuration (Optional) 
----------------------------------------------------------------

OceanBase Database has hundreds of parameters and some are coupled. We recommend that you do not modify parameters in the sample configuration file before you become familiar with OceanBase Database. The following example shows you how to modify a parameter and make it take effect. 

```unknow
# Run the edit-config command to enter the edit mode before you can edit the cluster configurations.
obd cluster edit-config obtest
# Change the value of the sys_bkgd_migration_retry_num parameter to 5.
# Note that the minimum value of the sys_bkgd_migration_retry_num parameter is 3.
# After you save the change and exit, OBD will inform you how to make it take effect.
# For this parameter, you only need to run the reload command to make it take effect.
obd cluster reload obtest
```



Install the MySQL installation package (Optional) 
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The MySQL installation package is required for running testing programs such as Sysbench and TPCH. 

In CentOS, RedHat, or Anolis, run the following command to install the MySQL installation package:

```unknow
yum install mariadb
yum install mariadb-libs
yum install mariadb-devel
```



In Ubuntu, run the following command to install the MySQL installation package:

```unknow
apt-get install mariadb-server
```



In Debian, run the following command to install the MySQL installation package:

```unknow
apt-get install mysql-server mysql-client libmariadbd18 libmariadbd-dev
```



Connect to OceanBase Database 
--------------------------------------------------

Run the following command to connect to OceanBase Database by using the OBClient:

```unknow
obclient -h<your_ip> -P<obproxy_port> -uroot
```



You need to replace the `your_ip` with the IP address of the server where your OceanBase Database instance is located. By default, ODP connects to the OBClient by using the port `2883`. Use the actual port number if you have changed it.

Create a user tenant 
-----------------------------------------

You must create a user tenant before you use OceanBase Database. You can run your business data only in a user tenant. 

You can create a user tenant by using the following method:

* Create a user tenant by using OBD. 

  ```unknow
  obd cluster tenant create ${cluster_name} -n ${tenant_name}
  ```

  

* Create a user tenant by using SQL statements. For more information, see [Create a user tenant](../600.administrator-guide/300.basic-database-management/500.tenant-management/200.create-a-user-tenant.md).

  



