Configure the clock source (Optional) 
==========================================================

This topic describes how to configure the clock source under the Network Time Protocol (NTP) for multiple servers in a cluster. Skip this topic if you install OceanBase Database on a single server other than the central control server, or install it for testing. 
If you deploy OceanBase Database in a cluster, you must ensure that the time of each server in the cluster is synchronized. Otherwise, the cluster cannot be started and exceptions will be thrown. If you have already configured the NTP clock source, no need to do it again.
The clocks of servers in the OceanBase cluster must be synchronized. Otherwise, the OceanBase cluster may not start or will encounter operational exceptions. A physical server is synchronous with the clock source server (NTP server) when the clock error between them is less than 50 ms. The tolerable clock error of an OceanBase cluster can not exceed 100 ms. When the clock error exceeds 100 ms, the cluster may become leaderless. You can synchronize the clock and restart the OceanBase cluster to restore it to normal.

Prerequisite 
---------------------------------

You have the root user privileges on all servers.

Procedure 
------------------------------

Perform the following steps to configure the NTP clock source:

1. Run the following command on each server to install NTP:

   ```bash
   yum install ntp ntpdate -y
   ```

   

2. Run the following command to check the NTP connection to the server:

   When the time difference between the physical server and the NTP server is less than 50 ms, the clocks are considered synchronized.

   ```bash
   [root@centos-01 /root]#ntpq -4p
   remote refid st t when poll reach delay offset jitter
   ==============================================================================
   *time6.aliyun.co 10.137.38.86 2 u 712 1024 377 21.951 4.253 4.208
   ```

   

3. Optional. Enable the NTP service.

   If you already have an NTP server, skip this step. The following example describes how to enable time synchronization by taking the server `10.244.0.114` as the NTP server. 
   1. Edit the configuration file. 

      Log on to the NTP server as a root user and run the following command to open the configuration file:

      ```bash
      vi /etc/ntp.conf
      ```

      

      Add the following content to the configuration file:

      ```bash
      server <yout_ntp_server_ip>
      ```

      

      Save and close the file.
      
   
   2. Run the following command to restart the NTP service:

      ```bash
      service ntpd restart
      ```

      
   
   3. Run the following command to check whether the NTP service is enabled:

      ```bash
      ps -ef | grep -i ntpd
      ```

      
   
   4. Run the following command to enable the NTP service upon startup.

      ```bash
      chkconfig ntpd on
      ```

      
   

   

4. Enable the NTP service on an OBServer. 

   **Notice**

   

   You can enable the NTP service on an OBServer 5 minutes after the NTP server is started. Otherwise, the system prompts "no server suitable for synchronization found".
   1. Log on to OceanBase Database as the root user.

      
   
   2. Run the following command to stop the NTP service:

      ```bash
      service ntpd stop
      ```

      
   
   3. Run the following command to synchronize the time with the NTP server:

      ```bash
      ntpdate 10.244.0.114
      ```

      
   
   4. Edit the configuration file. 

      Run the following command to open the configuration file:

      ```bash
      vi /etc/ntp.conf
      ```

      

      Add the following content to the configuration file:

      ```bash
      server <yout_ntp_server_ip>
      ```

      
   
   5. Run the following command to start the NTP service:

      ```bash
      /etc/init.d/ntpd start
      ```

      
   

   

5. Run the following command to verify whether the configuration is successful:

   ```bash
   ntpstat
   ```

   

   The following information indicates successful configuration:

   ```bash
   synchronised to NTP server (10.143.0.44) at stratum 3
   time correct to within 2 ms
   polling server every 64 s
   ```

   

   ```bash
   timedatectl
   ```

   

   The following information indicates that the NTP service is enabled:

   ```bash
         Local time: Thu 2021-04-22 11:02:32 CST
     Universal time: Thu 2021-04-22 03:02:32 UTC
           RTC time: Thu 2021-04-22 11:02:32
          Time zone: Asia/Shanghai (CST, +0800)
        NTP enabled: yes
   NTP synchronized: yes
    RTC in local TZ: yes
         DST active: n/a
   ```

   

   




