Configure limits.conf (optional) 
=====================================================



You can configure the `limits.conf` file to limit the number of processes. If you are an individual user, you can skip this topic. If you are an enterprise user, you must configure the `limits.conf` file. 

You can modify the limit on resources by using the following two methods:

* Modify the limit at the session level when OceanBase Database is started.

  

* Modify the limit globally by using the limits.conf file in the `/etc/security/` directory.

  




OceanBase Database processes can be limited in terms of the following parameters: Stack, Open Files, and Core File Size. Stack refers to the maximum stack size. Open Files refers to the maximum number of file handles. Core File Size refers to the maximum size of core files. 

Modify parameters 
--------------------------------------

**Note**



You must perform this operation on each server.

The following example shows how set the value of the session-level Stack parameter to `unlimited`, the Open Files parameter to`655350`, and the Core File Size parameter to `unlimited`. 

Run the following command to open the limits.conf ` file in the /etc/security/` directory:

```unknow
vi /etc/security/limits.conf
```



In the `/limits.conf` file of the /etc/security/ directory, add the following content:

```unknow
root soft nofile 655350
root hard nofile 655350
* soft nofile 655350
* hard nofile 655350
* soft stack 20480
* hard stack 20480
* soft nproc 655360
* hard nproc 655360
* soft core unlimited
* hard core unlimited
```



View parameters 
------------------------------------

Log off from the session and log on again. Run the following command to view whether the parameters have taken effect:

```unknow
ulimit -a
```





