| description |  |
|---|---|
| keywords | |
| dir-name | Superset |
| dir-name-en | Superset |
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Connect to OceanBase Database by using Superset

This topic describes how to connect to OceanBase Database by using Superset.

## Prerequisites

* You have configured and run Superset on your local machine. For more information, see [Superset quickstart](https://superset.apache.org/docs/quickstart/#1-get-superset).
* You have installed OceanBase Database and created a MySQL tenant.
* You have prepared an available dataset for testing. The dataset used in this topic is from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/vizeno/earthquake-data-overview).


## Procedure

### Step 1: Obtain a database connection string

Obtain a database connection string from a database deployment engineer or administrator. For example:

```
obclient -h$host -P$port -u$user_name -p$password -D$database_name
```

where

* `$host` indicates the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is the IP address of an OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) for connection through ODP, or the IP address of an OBServer node for direct connection.
* `$port` indicates the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. For connection through ODP, the default value is `2883`, which can be customized when ODP is deployed. For direct connection, the default value is `2881`, which can be customized when OceanBase Database is deployed.
* `$database_name` indicates the name of the database to be accessed.

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
        <h4>Notice</h4>
        <p>The user for connecting to a tenant must have the <code>CREATE</code>, <code>INSERT</code>, <code>DROP</code>, and <code>SELECT</code> privileges on the database. For more information about user privileges, see <a href="../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/200.permission-of-mysql-mode/100.permission-classification-of-mysql.md">Privilege types in MySQL mode</a>. </p>
    </main>

* `$user_name` indicates the tenant account. For connection through ODP, the tenant account can be in the `Username@Tenant name#Cluster name` or `Cluster name:Tenant name:Username` format. For direct connection, the tenant account is in the `Username@Tenant name` format.
* `$password` indicates the password of the account.

For more information about the connection string, see [Connect to an OceanBase tenant by using OBClient](../../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/300.connect-to-an-oceanbase-tenant-by-using-obclient-of-mysql-mode.md).

Here is an example:

```shell
obclient -hxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -P2881 -utest_user001@mysql001 -p****** -Dtest
```

### Step 2: Connect to OceanBase Database from the Superset console

1. In the Superset console, click the plus sign (+) and choose **Data > Connect database**.

2. In the dialog box that appears, complete the following settings:

   1. In the **Select a database to connect** step, select a MySQL database.
   2. In the **Enter the required MySQL credentials** step, enter the connection information in the **HOST**, **PORT**, **DATABASE NAME**, **USERNAME**, and **PASSWORD** fields based on the connection string obtained in **Step 1**. You can enter a custom value for **DISPLAY NAME**.

3. Click **CONNECT** and then click **FINISH**.

### Step 3: Import data and create a table

1. Log on to OceanBase Database by using the connection string obtained in **Step 1** and create a table by using the following statement:

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE earthquakes (
    Place VARCHAR(255),
    Latitude DECIMAL(10, 6),
    Longitude DECIMAL(10, 6),
    Country VARCHAR(100),
    Continent VARCHAR(100),
    Magnitude DECIMAL(3, 1)
   );
   ```

2. You can use the `LOAD DATA` statement to import the prepared dataset to the table. Here is a sample statement:

   ```sql
   LOAD DATA INFILE '/path/earthquake_dataset.csv'
   INTO TABLE earthquakes
   FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
   ENCLOSED BY '"'
   LINES TERMINATED BY '\n'
   IGNORE 1 LINES
   (Place, Latitude, Longitude, Country, Continent, Magnitude);
   ```

   <!-- If the dataset contains a large amount of data or the data to be imported needs to be converted, you can use [OBLOADER](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-dumper-loader-1000000000628762) to import the data. -->

   If the dataset contains a large amount of data or the data to be imported needs to be converted, you can use OBLOADER to import the data.


   After the dataset is imported, execute the following statement for verification:

   ```shell
   obclient> SELECT COUNT(*) FROM earthquakes;
   +----------+
   | COUNT(*) |
   +----------+
   |     1264 |
   +----------+
   1 row in set
   ```

### Step 4: Create a dataset in Superset

1. Go back to the Superset console. Click the plus sign (+) in the upper-right corner and choose **Data > Create dataset**.

2. On the **New dataset** page, configure the following parameters.

   | Parameter | Description |
   |----|----|
   | DATABASE | Select the database name entered for **DISPLAY NAME** in Step 2.  |
   | SCHEMA | Select the OceanBase database created in Step 1.  |
   | TABLE | Select the table created in Step 3.  |

3. Click **CREATE DATASET AND CREATE CHART**.

## What to do next

After creating a dataset, you can choose a chart type according to your preference and click **CREATE NEW CHART** to set up the chart. For more information on setting up the charts, see [Superset documentation](https://superset.apache.org/docs/creating-charts-dashboards/exploring-data).