# mysqltest instructions

This topic describes how to use mysqltest for case testing in OceanBase Database.

## Prerequisites

You have started an OceanBase cluster by using OceanBase Deployer (OBD). <!-- For more information, see [Use OBD to start an OceanBase cluster](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy#%E5%BF%AB%E9%80%9F%E5%90%AF%E5%8A%A8-oceanbase-%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E5%BA%93). -->

## Terms

Test case: the minimum unit for running mysqltest. A test case contains at least a test file and a result file.
Suite: a set of test cases.

## Use mysqltest

### Full test

Run the following command to run all test cases in `mysql_test/test_suite`:

```bash
obd test mysqltest <deploy name> --all --auto-retry
# To run the OBD command in another directory instead of the current directory, use the --suite-dir option.
# Some test cases contain a relative path. If you run the OBD command in another directory instead of the current directory, the test case may fail.
```

* The `deploy name` parameter specifies the deployment configuration name, which can be understood as the configuration file name.

* The `--suite-dir` option specifies the directory where the suite is located. Default value: `./mysql_test/test_suite`.

* The `--all` option specifies to run all suites in the directory specified by the `--suite-dir` option.

* If the `--auto-retry` option is specified, when a test case fails, mysqltest will automatically deploy the cluster again and run the test case again.

### Single suite

Run the following command to run the specified suite in `mysql_test/test_suite`:

```bash
obd test mysqltest <deploy name> --suite <suite_name>  --auto-retry
# To run the OBD command in another directory instead of the current directory, use the --suite-dir option.
# Some test cases contain a relative path. If you run the OBD command in another directory instead of the current directory, the test case may fail.
```

* The `deploy name` parameter specifies the deployment configuration name, which can be understood as the configuration file name.

* The `--suite-dir` option specifies the directory where the suite is located. Default value: `./mysql_test/test_suite`.

* The `--suite` option specifies a set of suites, which are separated with commas (,).

* If the `--auto-retry` option is specified, when a test case fails, mysqltest will automatically deploy the cluster again and run the test case again.

### Single test case

Run the following command to run a specified test case, such as `mysql_test/test_suite/alter/t/alter_log_archive_option.test`:

```bash
obd test mysqltest <deploy name> --test-dir ./mysql_test/test_suite/alter/t --result-dir ./mysql_test/test_suite/alter/r --test-set alter_log_archive_option --auto-retry
# If the OBD command is run in another directory instead of the current directory, adjust the --test-dir and --result-dir options.
# Some test cases contain a relative path. If you run the OBD command in another directory instead of the current directory, the test case may fail.
```

* The `deploy name` parameter specifies the deployment configuration name, which can be understood as the configuration file name.

* The `--test-dir` option specifies the directory where the test file is located. Default value: `./t`.

* The `--result-dir` option specifies the directory where the result file is located. Default value: `./r`.

* The `--test-set` option specifies a set of test cases, which are separated with commas (,).

* If the `--auto-retry` option is specified, when a test case fails, mysqltest will automatically deploy the cluster again and run the test case again.
