# Initiate a full data backup job

This topic describes how to initiate a data backup job after you initiate a log archive job.

## Prerequisites



* A log archive job has been initiated. You can initiate a data backup job only when `STATUS` of the log archive job is `DOING`.

   For more information about how to enable log archiving, see [Enable log archiving](../3.log-archive/3.initiate-log-archive.md).

## (Optional) Preparations

Before you initiate a data backup job, you can set a password for the backup set.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of a cluster as the `root` user.

2. (Optional) Run the following command to set a backup password.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note:</h4>
      <p>This password is the password of the backup set after the backup job is completed. When this parameter is set, you must enter this password to recover data by using this backup set. This password cannot be deleted. </p>
   </main>

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET ENCRYPTION ON IDENTIFIED BY 'password' ONLY;
   ```

   For example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET ENCRYPTION ON IDENTIFIED BY '******' ONLY;
   ```

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note:</h4>
      <p>After you set a backup password, you can disconnect the session and reconnect to the database to cancel the setting before a data backup job is initiated. </p>
   </main>

## Initiate a full data backup job

After you complete the preparations, you can perform the following steps to initiate a full data backup job.

Assume that the current cluster contains three tenants: `sys`, `mysql_tenant`, and `oracle_tenant`, and that backup preparations have been completed for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants.

### Initiate a full data backup job from the sys tenant

You can initiate a full data backup job for all tenants or a specified tenant in the cluster from the `sys` tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of a cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to initiate a full data backup job:

   * Initiate a full data backup job for all tenants in the cluster

      You can initiate a full data backup job for all tenants in the cluster.

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP DATABASE;
      ```

      In this example, the system initiates a full data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants in the cluster.

   * Initiate a full data backup job for a specified tenant in the cluster

      You can initiate a full data backup job for a specified tenant without affecting other tenants in the cluster.

      To initiate a full data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note:</h4>
        <p>If you specify multiple tenants, separate the tenant names with commas (<code>,</code>). </p>
      </main>

      After the statement is executed, the system initiates a full data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` tenant.

   You can view the backup progress in real time. For more information, see [View the data backup progress]().


### Initiate a full data backup job for a user tenant

You can initiate a full data backup job for a user tenant without affecting other tenants.

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

   In this example, you can log on to the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `root` user, or to the `oracle_tenant` tenant as the `SYS` user.

2. Execute the following statement to initiate a full data backup job:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP DATABASE;
   ```

   After the statement is executed, the system initiates a full data backup job for the current tenant.

   You can view the backup progress in real time. For more information, see [View the data backup progress](5.view-data-backup-progress.md).

## References

* [View the data backup progress](5.view-data-backup-progress.md)

* [View the data backup history](6.view-data-backup-history.md)
