# Manually initiate a minor compaction

You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE` statement to manually initiate a minor compaction.

## Initiate a minor compaction from the sys tenant

You can initiate a minor compaction for all tenants or one or more specified tenants from the sys tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Select a proper minor compaction type as needed.

   * Minor compaction at the tenant level

      You can perform a minor compaction for all tenants or one or more specified tenants.

      SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT [=] ALL | tenant_name [, tenant_name ...];
      ```

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT =ALL;

      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE tenant = sys;

      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT =tenant1,tenant2;

      ```

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
       <h4>Note</h4>
       <p>If you execute the <code>ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE</code> statement without specifying a tenant, a minor compaction is performed for the current tenant. </p>
      </main>

   * Minor compaction at the zone level

      You can perform a minor compaction for one or more specified zones.

      SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE ZONE [=] zone_name [, zone_name ...];
      ```

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE ZONE = zone1;
      ```

   * Minor compaction at the server level

      You can perform a minor compaction for one or more specified OBServer nodes.

      SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE SERVER = ('ip:port' [, 'ip:port'...]);
      ```

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE SERVER = ('10.10.10.1:2882');
      ```

   * Minor compaction at the partition level

      You can initiate a minor compaction for a specified partition of a specified tenant.

      SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TENANT [=] tenant_name TABLET_ID = tid;
      ```

      In the statement, `tid` specifies the name of a partition in the tenant. You can query the `oceanbase.CDB_OB_TABLET_TO_L` view in the `sys` tenant for the partition name.

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE tenant = t1 tablet_id = 60000;
      ```

3. After you initiate a minor compaction, you can view the information about it. For more information, see [View minor compaction information](4.view-dump-information.md).

## Initiate a minor compaction for a user tenant from the current tenant

You can initiate a minor compaction for a user tenant from the current tenant.

1. Log on to OceanBase Database as the administrator of the tenant.

2. Select a proper minor compaction type as needed.

   * Initiate a minor compaction for the current tenant

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE;
      ```

   * Initiate a minor compaction for a specified OBServer node in the current tenant

      You can perform a minor compaction for one or more specified OBServer nodes in the current tenant.

      SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE SERVER = ('ip:port' [, 'ip:port'...]);
      ```

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE SERVER = ('10.10.10.1:2882');
      ```

   * Initiate a minor compaction for a specified partition in the current tenant

      You can initiate a minor compaction for a specified partition in the current tenant.

      SQL syntax:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE TABLET_ID = tid;
      ```

      In the statement, `tid` specifies the name of a partition in the current tenant. You can query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_TABLET_TO_LS` or `sys.DBA_OB_TABLET_TO_LS` view for the partition name.

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE tablet_id = 50005;
      ```

3. After you initiate a minor compaction, you can view the information about it. For more information, see [View minor compaction information](4.view-dump-information.md).

## References

* [Automatically trigger a minor compaction](../1.dump-management/2.automatically-trigger-dump.md)

* [Modify minor compaction settings](../1.dump-management/5.modify-dump-configuration.md)
