Create a resource unit 
===========================================

You can create a resource unit by using SQL statements. 

Create a resource unit by using SQL statements 
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The resources that can be used by a tenant are restricted to the specified resource units. If the current resource units cannot meet the needs of the new tenant, you can create a resource unit. 

The following is the syntax of the statement for creating a resource unit:

```sql
CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unitname 
MAX_CPU [=] cpunum, 
MAX_MEMORY [=] memsize, 
MAX_IOPS [=] iopsnum, 
MAX_DISK_SIZE [=] disksize, 
MAX_SESSION_NUM [=] sessionnum, 
[MIN_CPU [=] cpunum,]
[MIN_MEMORY [=] memsize,] 
[MIN_IOPS [=] iopsnum] ;
```



Parameter description and value ranges:

* The parameters in the syntax must be specified, including the CPU, memory, IOPS, disk size, and session number.

  

* When you specify a value for a parameter, you can use a number without quotation marks ('), or a number and a unit enclosed in quotation marks (for example, `'1T'`, `'1G'`, `'1M'`, or `'1K'`). 

  For example, `max_memory='10G'` is equivalent to `max_memory=10737418240`.
  **Note**

  

  We recommend that you do not enclose a number without a unit in quotation marks.
  

* The value range of `MAX_MEMORY` in bytes is \[1073741824,+ ∞). That is, the minimum value is 1 GB.

  

* The value range of `MAX_IOPS` is \[128,+ ∞).

  

* The value range of `MAX_DISK_SIZE` in bytes is \[536870912,+ ∞\]. That is, the minimum value is 512 MB.

  

* The value range of `MAX_SESSION_NUM` is \[64,+ ∞).

  




Example

```sql
obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit1 max_cpu 1, max_memory '1G', max_iops 128,max_disk_size '10G', max_session_num 64, MIN_CPU=1, MIN_MEMORY='1G', MIN_IOPS=128;

obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit1 max_cpu 1, max_memory 1073741824, max_iops 128, max_disk_size 10737418240, max_session_num 64, MIN_CPU=1, MIN_MEMORY=1073741824, MIN_IOPS=128;
```



A resource unit is actually a template that can be used by different resource pools. For example, after you create resource unit `unit1`, you can use the resource configuration of `unit1` to create resource pools `pool1` and `pool2`.

