|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

The recycle bin stores objects such as databases and tables deleted by users.

The recycle bin is equivalent to a data dictionary table for storing information about objects deleted by the user. Objects in the recycle bin still occupy physical space unless they are manually cleared by using the `PURGE` command or periodically deleted by the system.

## Objects in the recycle bin

In the current version, indexes, tables, databases, and tenants can be moved to the recycle bin. You can delete tenants only in the `sys` tenant. Therefore, MySQL and Oracle user tenants can be moved only to the recycle bin of the `sys` tenant after they are dropped.

* In the `sys` tenant, you can manage databases, tables, indexes, and tenants in the recycle bin.

* In a MySQL user tenant, you can manage databases, tables, and indexes in the recycle bin.

* In an Oracle user tenant, you can manage tables and indexes in the recycle bin.

## Limitations

* When you directly delete an index, the index is not moved to the recycle bin. When you delete a table, indexes on the table are also moved to the recycle bin together with the table.

* When you directly drop a materialized view or materialized view log, the view or log is not moved to the recycle bin. When you drop a database, materialized views or materialized view logs in the database are also moved to the recycle bin together with the database.

* When database objects are restored by using the `FLASHBACK` command, the objects are restored in the sequence of databases > tables.

* You cannot directly restore an index. When you restore a table, indexes on the table are restored together with the table.

* You cannot query for or perform DML operations on objects in the recycle bin. Only two DDL operations are supported: `PURGE` and `FLASHBACK`.

* Objects in the recycle bin still occupy storage space.

## References

For more information about the recycle bin, see the following topics:

* [Enable or disable the recycle bin](../500.recyclebin-management/200.turn-the-recyclebin-on-or-off.md)

* [View objects in the recycle bin](../500.recyclebin-management/300.view-the-recyclebin-objects.md)

* [Restore objects from the recycle bin](../500.recyclebin-management/400.restore-the-recyclebin-objects.md)

* [Purge the recycle bin](../500.recyclebin-management/500.purge-the-recyclebin.md)
