|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Emergency response overview

Emergency response is required to tackle not only faults but all exceptions that exceed the designed capacities and expectations of a cluster. The purpose of emergency response is not to identify the root cause but to eliminate the faults and restore the service of a cluster at the earliest opportunity.

## Identify exceptions

You can actively diagnose exceptions or take actions upon notifications. OceanBase Database supports the following exception identification methods:

* Business monitoring and alerting, in which applications are monitored.

* Routine inspection of databases. For more information, see **Monitoring** in **Monitor and send alerts**.

* Database monitoring and alerting. For more information, see **Alerts** in **Monitor and send alerts**

## Emergency event classification

### Infrastructure faults

Infrastructure faults are caused by hardware or software exceptions. Most exceptions that involve a single server of OceanBase Database can be automatically recovered. However, you must perform an emergency procedure in some circumstances. In general, infrastructure faults are classified into the following types:

* Server failure caused by hardware faults

* Server clock offset from the NTP clock

* Rack or IDC power failure

* Single-server network interface controller (NIC) fault, or network jitter in a rack or IDC

* Faults of the load balancer of an ODP cluster

### Insufficient capacity due to traffic increase

During a marketing campaign or when a new service is released, traffic surges tend to overwhelm the designed capacity of a database. This results in a series of issues, such as performance downgrade, latency increase, and connection timeout. Insufficient capacity of OceanBase Database often leads to the following exceptions:

* High usage of cluster resources for executing SQL queries

* High disk I/O on an OBServer node

* Overloaded NIC on an OBServer node

* Accumulated request queue of a tenant

* Fully occupied tenant memory

* Full usage of ODP threads

* Full usage of the OBServer clog disk

* Full usage of the OBServer data disk

### Other exceptions of OceanBase clusters

Under the distributed architecture of OceanBase Database, exceptions other than those of the preceding two types may also be triggered in specific scenarios or by user behaviors. These exceptions may be caused by various factors, such as service access methods and software bugs. You can perform a general emergency procedure to stop the loss. These exceptions include:

* Blocked tenant minor compaction

* Blocked cluster freeze or major compaction

* Suspended and long-running transactions

* Accumulated request queue of the sys tenant

* Unexpected observer process exit

* Memory insufficiency or leakage of internal modules

* Buffer tables

Some exceptions described in the topic are phenomena, and others are causes. For more information about the logic of exception troubleshooting, see [Analysis, diagnosis, and decision-making process](../1100.emergency-response/200.analysis-diagnosis-and-decision-making-process.md).
