# Specify a log restore source

You must specify a log restore source for the standby tenant regardless of whether the Physical Standby Database solution is based on log archiving or network. Both of the two deployment modes allow you to dynamically modify the log restore source as needed, and switch from one log restore source to another. This topic describes how to specify a log restore source in the two deployment modes.

## Considerations

When you switch from one log restore source to another, the original and new log restore sources must be the same as the source tenant specified when you created the standby tenant. In other words, the log restore source must be the archived logs of the source tenant or point to the source tenant. Otherwise, non-recoverable data errors occur in the standby tenant, and you must create another standby tenant.

## Specify the log restore source for the Physical Standby Database solution based on log archiving

If you execute the `RESTORE` statement to restore a standby tenant by using the physical backup and recovery feature, a log restore source is specified for the standby tenant by default. The default log restore source is the log archiving destination of the primary tenant or source standby tenant. Therefore, you do not need to specify a log restore source again. However, you can change the log restore source to the primary tenant or source standby tenant. For more information, see **Specify the log restore source for the network-based Physical Standby Database solution**.

If you create an empty standby tenant or create a standby tenant by using the `BACKUP DATABASE PLUS ARCHIVELOG` feature, and you want to set the log restore source to archived logs of the primary tenant, perform the following steps:

1. Log on as the administrator to the standby tenant or the `sys` tenant of the cluster where the standby tenant resides.

2. Set the restore source of the standby tenant to the archiving destination of the primary tenant.

   * Execute the following statement in the `sys` tenant of the cluster where the standby tenant resides to specify the restore source of the standby tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE ='LOCATION=archive_path' TENANT = tenant_name;
      ```

   * Execute the following statement in the standby tenant to specify the restore source of the standby tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE ='LOCATION=archive_path';
      ```

   The `LOCATION` attribute specifies the archiving destination of the primary tenant.

   For example:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE ='location=file:///data/1/sh_archive' TENANT = standby_tenant;
   ```

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE ='location=file:///data/1/sh_archive';
   ```

## Specify the log restore source for the network-based Physical Standby Database solution

When you execute the `CREATE STANDBY TENANT` statement to create an empty standby tenant, a default log restore source is specified by the `LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE` parameter. The default log restore source is the primary tenant. Therefore, you do not need to specify a log restore source again. However, you can change the log restore source to archived logs of the primary tenant. For more information, see **Specify the log restore source for the Physical Standby Database solution based on log archiving**.

If you create a standby tenant by using the backup and recovery feature or `BACKUP DATABASE PLUS ARCHIVELOG` feature, and you want to set the log restore source to the primary tenant or source standby tenant, you must execute the `ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE` statement. Perform the following steps:

### Step 1: Create a dedicated user for accessing views

When a standby tenant connects to a primary tenant or source standby tenant, the standby tenant accesses some system views of the primary tenant or source standby tenant. Therefore, a dedicated user with the privilege to query the system views is required. You can use a user with the privilege in the primary tenant or source standby tenant, or create a dedicated user with the privilege in the primary tenant or source standby tenant for the standby tenant.

System views to be accessed by the standby tenant:

* `GV$OB_LOG_STAT`: contains the servers in the primary tenant, the log sequence number (LSN) range of log streams for replicas, and the role information indicating whether a replica is a leader.

   For more information about the `GV$OB_LOG_STAT` view, see [GV$OB_LOG_STAT](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/11400.gv-ob_log_stat-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `GV$OB_UNITS`: contains the replica status, zones, and regions of all units in the primary tenant. You can use this view to filter, query, and maintain server connections for tenants.

   For more information about the `GV$OB_UNITS` view, see [GV$OB_UNITS](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/1300.gv-ob_units-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `GV$OB_PARAMETERS`: contains the metadata required for services, such as the `cluster_id` and `tenant_id` of the primary tenant.

   For more information about the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view, see [GV$OB_PARAMETERS](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/600.gv-ob_parameters-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT`: contains information about the access portal. If the access portal changes during migration, replication, or disaster recovery of the primary tenant, the standby tenant automatically synchronizes the change without manual modification.

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT` view, see [DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/23600.dba_ob_access_point-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `DBA_OB_TENANTS`: contains the compatibility mode of the primary tenant.

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_TENANTS` view, see [DBA_OB_TENANTS](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/19300.oceanbase-dba_ob_tenants-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `DBA_OB_LS`: contains the log streams and log stream status of the primary tenant.

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_LS` view, see [DBA_OB_LS](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/17600.oceanbase-dba_ob_ls-of-mysql-mode.md).

To create and authorize a dedicated user, perform the following operations:

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>In OceanBase Database, standby tenants synchronize usernames and privileges from a primary tenant. You cannot create a user or grant privileges to a user in a standby tenant. Therefore, if the source of a standby tenant is another standby tenant, you must create a dedicated user for accessing views in the corresponding primary tenant and grant privileges to the user. </p>
</main>

#### MySQL mode

1. Log on to the primary tenant as the administrator.

2. Create a user.

   ```sql
   CREATE USER rep_user IDENTIFIED BY '******';
   ```

3. Grant privileges to the user.

   The following sample statement grants the user the `SELECT` privilege on all tables in the `oceanbase` database. You can also grant the user the `SELECT` privilege on the `GV$OB_LOG_STAT`, `GV$OB_UNITS`, `GV$OB_PARAMETERS`, `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT`, `DBA_OB_TENANTS`, and `DBA_OB_LS` views in the `oceanbase` database.

   ```sql
   GRANT SELECT ON oceanbase.* TO rep_user;
   ```

#### Oracle mode

1. Log on to the primary tenant as the administrator.

2. Create a user.

   ```sql
   CREATE USER rep_user IDENTIFIED BY '******';
   ```

3. Grant privileges to the user.

   * Grant the user the privilege to connect to a database.

      ```sql
      GRANT CONNECT TO rep_user;
      ```

   * Grant the user the privilege to access the `GV$OB_LOG_STAT` view.

      ```sql
      GRANT SELECT on SYS.GV$OB_LOG_STAT to rep_user;
      ```

   * Grant the user the privilege to access the `GV$OB_UNITS` view.

      ```sql
      GRANT SELECT on SYS.GV$OB_UNITS to rep_user;
      ```

   * Grant the user the privilege to access the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

      ```sql
      GRANT SELECT on SYS.GV$OB_PARAMETERS to rep_user;
      ```

   * Grant the user the privilege to access the `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT` view.

      ```sql
      GRANT SELECT on SYS.DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT to rep_user;
      ```

   * Grant the user the privilege to access the `DBA_OB_TENANTS` view.

      ```sql
      GRANT SELECT on SYS.DBA_OB_TENANTS to rep_user;
      ```

   * Grant the user the privilege to access the `DBA_OB_LS` view.

      ```sql
      GRANT SELECT on SYS.DBA_OB_LS to rep_user;
      ```

### Step 2: Query the access portal for the primary tenant or source standby tenant

If you specify a log restore source for the network-based Physical Standby Database solution, you must obtain the IP address and port number of the OBServer node where the tenant replica resides for the primary tenant or source standby tenant.

1. Log on to the primary tenant or source standby tenant as the administrator.

2. Execute the following statement to obtain the information about the access portal:

   * MySQL mode

      ```sql
      SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT;
      ```
      
      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>If you have logged on to the <code>sys</code> tenant, you need to obtain the information about the access portal by querying the <code>CDB_OB_ACCESS_POINT</code> view. </p>
      </main>
      
   * Oracle mode

      ```sql
      SELECT * FROM SYS.DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT;
      ```

   The query result is as follows:

      ```shell
      +-----------+-------------+-------------+----------+
      | TENANT_ID | TENANT_NAME | SVR_IP      | SQL_PORT |
      +-----------+-------------+-------------+----------+
      |      1004 | mysql       | xx.xx.xx.22 |    17855 |
      |      1004 | mysql       | xx.xx.xx.23 |    17857 |
      |      1004 | mysql       | xx.xx.xx.24 |    17859 |
      +-----------+-------------+-------------+----------+
      3 rows in set
      ```

   In this example, the queried tenant has three replicas. If the primary tenant or source standby tenant has a single replica, only one row is returned.

### Step 3: Specify a log restore source

1. Log on as the administrator to the standby tenant or the `sys` tenant of the cluster where the standby tenant resides.

2. Specify the log restore source.

   * Execute the following statement in the `sys` tenant of the cluster where the standby tenant resides to specify the log restore source of the standby tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE ='SERVICE=$ip_list USER=$user_name@$tenant_name PASSWORD=$password' TENANT = tenant_name;
      ```

   * Execute the following statement in the standby tenant to specify the log restore source of the standby tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE ='SERVICE=$ip_list USER=$user_name@$tenant_name PASSWORD=$password';
      ```

   The parameters are described as follows:

   * `$ip_list`: the IP addresses and RPC port number of the OBServer nodes where replicas of the primary tenant or source standby tenant reside. You need to use the value obtained in Step 2.
   * `$user_name`: the dedicated user for accessing views, which is created in Step 1.
   * `$tenant_name`: the name of the primary tenant or source standby tenant to connect to.
   * `$password`: the password of the dedicated user for accessing views.

   For example:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE = 'SERVICE=11.xx.xx.22:17855;11.xx.xx.23:17857;11.xx.xx.24:17859 USER=rep_user@mysql PASSWORD=******' TENANT = mysql;
   ```

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE = 'SERVICE=11.xx.xx.22:17855;11.xx.xx.23:17857;11.xx.xx.24:17859 USER=rep_user@mysql PASSWORD=******';
   ```

   Then, you can query the `CDB_OB_LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE` view in the `sys` tenant or the `DBA_OB_LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE` view in a user tenant to check whether the log restore source has changed. For more information, see [View the log restore source](../300.view-log-restore-source.md).

## References

[View the log restore source](../300.view-log-restore-source.md)
