|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Set the log recovery endpoint

Standby tenants should be in continuous synchronization mode be default. This topic describes the procedure for setting a standby tenant to continuous synchronization mode.

## Procedure

1. Log in to the standby tenant or the `sys` tenant of the cluster where the standby tenant is located, using the administrator.

2. Execute the `RECOVER` statement to set the log recovery endpoint for the standby tenant.

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM RECOVER STANDBY [TENANT = tenant_name] UNTIL UNLIMITED;
   ```

   Note that the parameter `TENANT = tenant_name` is only required when you execute the statement with the `sys` tenant to specify the name of the standby tenant. `UNLIMITED` indicates that the endpoint is infinite.

   * An example of setting the log recovery endpoint for a specified standby tenant through the `sys` tenant is as follows:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RECOVER STANDBY TENANT = standby_tenant UNTIL UNLIMITED;
      ```

   * An example of a standby tenant setting the log recovery endpoint for itself is as follows:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RECOVER STANDBY UNTIL UNLIMITED;
      ```

   After the statement is executed, the standby tenant will enter continuous synchronization mode.

## More information

OceanBase Database also allows you to execute the `RECOVER` statement to set the log recovery endpoint for the standby tenant to any reasonable time point. The syntax is as follows:

* Recover to a specified timestamp

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM RECOVER STANDBY [TENANT = tenant_name] UNTIL TIME='timestamp';
   ```

* Recover to a specified SCN

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM RECOVER STANDBY [TENANT = tenant_name] UNTIL SCN =scn;
   ```

   where

   * `TENANT = tenant_name` is only required when you execute the statement with the `sys` tenant to specify the name of the standby tenant.

   * `timestamp` is a specified timestamp in nanoseconds.

   * `scn` is a specified SCN, which is a logical internal timestamp.

After the statement is executed, the standby tenant will recover to the specified time point, including that time point.

## References

* [Create a standby tenant by using the backup and restore feature](../../200.create-a-standby-tenant/300.create-a-standby-tenant-by-backup-and-recovery.md)

* [Create a standby tenant by using the BACKUP DATABASE PLUS ARCHIVELOG feature](../../200.create-a-standby-tenant/400.create-a-standby-tenant-by-backup-database-plus-archivelog.md)
