Subpartitioned tables 
==========================================

After you create a subpartitioned table, you can add, delete, or truncate the subpartitioned table. 

Add a partition 
------------------------------------

There are two scenarios:

* Add a partition and a subpartition by using a template

  When you use a template, you only need to specify the partitioning method of the primary table. The system generates the definition of the subpartitioning method based on the template. 

  Syntax:

  ```sql
  ALTER TABLE table_name add partition part_name partition_define
  ```

  

  Example:

  ```sql
  obclient> ALTER TABLE t_range_range add partition p3 VALUES less than (400);
  ```

  

* Add a partition and a subpartition without using a template

  To add a partition and a subpartition without using a template, you must specify the partitioning and subpartitioning methods. 

  Syntax:

  ```sql
  ALTER TABLE table_name add partition part_name partition_define
  (
   subpartition subpart_name subpartition_define
   , ...
   )
  ```

  

  Example:

  ```sql
  obclient> ALTER TABLE t_range_range1 add partition p4 VALUES less than (500) 
  (
   subpartition p4_r1 VALUES less than (100),
   subpartition p4_r2 VALUES less than (200),
   subpartition p5_r3 VALUES less than (300)
   );
  ```

  




Drop a partition 
-------------------------------------

OceanBase Database allows you to drop one or more partitions from a RANGE- or LIST-subpartitioned table. If you drop a partition, the partitioning method of the partition and the data in the subpartitions of this partition will also be dropped. 

Run the following statements to drop partitions in MySQL mode:

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name DROP PARTITION p1;

obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name DROP PARTITION p1,p2;
```



Drop a subpartition 
----------------------------------------

OceanBase Database allows you to drop one or more subpartitions from a non-template-based subpartitioned table and a RANGE- or LIST-subpartitioned table. If you drop a subpartition, the subpartitioning method of the subpartition and the data in the subpartition will also be dropped. 

Run the following statements to drop subpartitions in MySQL mode:

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name DROP SUBPARTITION p1;

obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name DROP SUBPARTITION p1,p2;
```



Truncate a partition 
-----------------------------------------

OceanBase Database allows you to truncate one or more partitions of a RANGE- or LIST-subpartitioned table to clear all data in the subpartitions of the partitions. 

Run the following statements to truncate partitions in MySQL mode:

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name TRUNCATE PARTITION p1;

obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name TRUNCATE PARTITION p1,p2;
```



Truncate a subpartition 
--------------------------------------------

OceanBase Database allows you to truncate one or more subpartitions of a RANGE- or LIST-subpartitioned table to clear all data in the subpartitions. 

Run the following statements to truncate subpartitions in MySQL mode:

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name TRUNCATE SUBPARTITION p1;

obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name TRUNCATE SUBPARTITION p1,p2;
```


