Automatically clear backup data 
====================================================

You can automatically clear backup data as needed. 

Notes 
--------------------------

* Only data stored in the backup destination specified by `backup_dest` can be automatically cleared. If the destination of a backup has been changed, it must be manually cleared upon expiration.

  

* Automatic data clearing will retain at least one valid backup copy. If an expired backup is the only valid copy, it will not be automatically cleared.

  




Enable automatic data clearing by using the backup_dest_option configuration item 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Log on to the database as the root user of the sys tenant.

   

2. Run the following command to set the expiration time and clearing policy of backup data by using the `backup_dest_option` configuration item. 

   The following example enables automatic clearing of data older than seven days.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET backup_dest_option='log_archive_checkpoint_interval=2m&recovery_window=7d&auto_delete_obsolete_backup=true&log_archive_piece_switch_interval=120s&backup_copies=2';
   ```

   

   In the command:
   * `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` specifies the interval for log backup. 

     If you do not specify this parameter in the `backup_dest_option` configuration item, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `log_archive_checkpoint_interval`, the default value `120s` is used. We recommend that you use `backup_dest_option` to specify the interval for log backup.
     
   
   * `recovery_window` specifies the retention period of backup data. 

     If you do not specify this parameter in the `backup_dest_option` configuration item, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `backup_recovery_window` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `backup_recovery_window`, the default value `0` is used, indicating that backup data will never expire. We recommend that you use `backup_dest_option` to specify the retention period of backup data. 

     When the backup expires, the system automatically clears it based on preset rules.
     
   
   * `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` specifies whether to automatically delete expired backup data. 

     If you do not specify this parameter in the `backup_dest_option` configuration item, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `auto_delete_expired_backup` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `auto_delete_expired_backup`, the default value `false` is used, indicating that expired backup data will not be automatically deleted. In this case, `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` must be set to `true`. We recommend that you use `backup_dest_option` to specify whether to automatically clear expired backup data.
     
   
   * `log_archive_piece_switch_interval` specifies whether to automatically split the content of the log file directory into multiple directories based on a specific interval. The default value is `0`, indicating that no splitting is performed. The valid value range is \[1d,7d\].

     
   
   * `backup_copies` specifies how many copies of backup data must be retained for backup redundancy. The default value is `1`. If you have specified `backup_backup_dest`, we recommend that you set backup_copies to `2`. The valid value range of backup_copies is \[1,8\]. 

     If you set `backup_copies` to `1`, the system deletes backup data without considering whether its secondary backup is successful. If you set `backup_copies` to `2`, the system will only automatically delete backup data in `backup_dest` after its secondary backup has been saved to `backup_backup_dest`.
     
   

   

   For more information about `backup_dest_option`, see the "[backup_dest_option](../../../../../1300.reference-guide/300.system-configuration-items/1800.backup_dest_option.md)" topic in Reference Guide (MySQL Mode) or Reference Guide (Oracle Mode).
   




Enable automatic data clearing by using the auto_delete_expired_backup configuration item 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The cluster-level configuration item `auto_delete_expired_backup` can also be used to enable automatic clearing. We recommend that you use `backup_dest_option` to enable automatic clearing. 

1. Log on to the database as the root user of the sys tenant.

   

2. Run the following command to set the expiration time of backup data by using the `backup_recovery_window` configuration item. 

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER SYSTEM SET backup_recovery_window = <expiration time>;
   ```

   

   `backup_recovery_window` specifies the time window in which a backup can be restored. The default value is `0`, which indicates permanent retention. We recommend that you set this parameter to `'7d'` so that the backup will be retained for one week. When the backup expires, the system automatically clears it. 

   Example:

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET backup_recovery_window = '7d';
   ```

   

3. Run the following command to enable automatic clearing of backup data by using the `auto_delete_expired_backup` configuration item. 

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET auto_delete_expired_backup = 'True';
   ```

   
   **Note**

   

   If a `9044` error is reported, the data clearing task is ongoing and you are not allowed to initiate another clearing task.
   




