Manually clear backup data 
===============================================

You can manually clear backup data as needed. 

You can run the `ALTER SYSTEM` command to delete the specified `backup_set_id`, `backup_piece_id`, and `backup_round_id`, or clear expired data. 

Preparations 
---------------------------------

Before you manually clear the expired backup data, you must specify the expiration time and clearing policy of backup data by setting `recovery_window` and `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` in the `backup_dest_option` configuration item. 

Example:

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET backup_dest_option='log_archive_checkpoint_interval=5s&recovery_window=7d&auto_delete_obsolete_backup=false&log_archive_piece_switch_interval=120s&backup_copies=2';
```



In the example:

* `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` specifies the interval for log backup. 

  If you do not specify this parameter in the `backup_dest_option` configuration item, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `log_archive_checkpoint_interval`, the default value `120s` is used. We recommend that you use `backup_dest_option` to specify the interval for log backup.
  

* `recovery_window` specifies the retention period of backup data. 

  If you do not specify this parameter in the `backup_dest_option` configuration item, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `backup_recovery_window` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `backup_recovery_window`, the default value `0` is used, indicating that backup data will never expire. We recommend that you use `backup_dest_option` to specify the retention period of backup data. 

  When the backup expires, you can manually clear it.
  

* `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` specifies whether to automatically delete expired backup data. 

  If you do not specify this parameter in the `backup_dest_option` configuration item, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `auto_delete_expired_backup` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `auto_delete_expired_backup`, the default value `false` is used, indicating that expired backup data will not be automatically deleted. In this case, `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` must be set to `false`. We recommend that you use `backup_dest_option` to specify whether to automatically clear expired backup data.
  

* `log_archive_piece_switch_interval` specifies whether to automatically split the content of the log file directory into multiple directories based on a specific interval. The default value is `0`, indicating that no splitting is performed. The valid value range is \[1d,7d\].

  

* `backup_copies` specifies how many copies of backup data must be retained for backup redundancy. The default value is `1`. If you have specified `backup_backup_dest`, we recommend that you set backup_copies to `2`. The valid value range of backup_copies is \[1,8\]. 

  If you set `backup_copies` to `1`, the system deletes backup data without considering whether its secondary backup is successful. If you set `backup_copies` to `2`, the system will only automatically delete backup data in `backup_dest` after its secondary backup has been saved to `backup_backup_dest`.
  




For more information about `backup_dest_option`, see the "[backup_dest_option](../../../../../13.reference-guide/3.system-configuration-items/18.backup_dest_option.md)" topic in Reference Guide (MySQL Mode) or Reference Guide (Oracle Mode).

Clear specified backups 
--------------------------------------------

1. Log on to the database as the root user of the sys tenant.

   

2. Query the `CDB_OB_BACKUP_SET_DETAILS` and `CDB_OB_BACKUP_PIECE_FILES` views to find the `backup_set_id`, `piece_id`, and `round_id` corresponding to the backup data to be cleared. 

   For more information about the fields in `CDB_OB_BACKUP_SET_DETAILS` and `CDB_OB_BACKUP_PIECE_FILES`, see the "[oceanbase.CDB_OB_BACKUP_SET_DETAILS](../../../../../13.reference-guide/1.system-views/1.dictionary-views/44.oceanbase-cdb_ob_backup_set_details.md)" and "[oceanbase.CDB_OB_BACKUP_PIECE_FILES](../../../../../13.reference-guide/1.system-views/1.dictionary-views/45.oceanbase-cdb_ob_backup_piece_files.md)" topics in Reference Guide (MySQL Mode).
   

3. Select the command that is appropriate for your need to clear the backup data. 

   * Clear backups with the specified `backup_set_id`

     ```sql
     obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE BACKUPSET backup_set_id;
     ```

     

     For example, you can run the following command to delete the backup whose `backup_set_id` is `1`: 

     ```sql
     obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE BACKUPSET 1;
     ```

     

     When you run the `DELETE BACKUPSET` command to clear the backups, the following constraints apply:
     * If the `backup_dest` of the `backup_set_id` to be deleted is the same as the destination specified in the `backup_dest` configuration item, at least one complete and valid backup copy is retained. Otherwise, the constraint of retaining one valid backup copy does not apply.

       
     
     * If the `backup_dest` of the `backup_set_id` to be deleted is the same as the destination specified in the `backup_dest` configuration item, the backup sets must be deleted in a specific order. For example, backup sets with `backup_set_id` of `1`, `2`, and `3` must be deleted in the order of `1` first, followed by `2`, and `3` last. Otherwise, the constraint on the deletion order of backup sets does not apply.

       
     
     * The command fails if the specified `backup_set_id` does not exist, or the backup of the specified `backup_set_id` is still ongoing.

       
     

     
   
   * Clear backups with the specified `piece_id`

     ```sql
     obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE BACKUPPIECE piece_id;
     ```

     

     When you run the `DELETE BACKUPPIECE` command to clear the backups, the following constraints apply:
     * You can only delete backup pieces in the Frozen or Inactive status.

       
     
     * If the `backup_dest` of the `piece_id` to be deleted is the same as the destination specified in the `backup_dest` configuration item, and the existing backups do not fully cover the backup piece, the corresponding `piece_id` cannot be deleted. Otherwise, the corresponding `piece_id` can be deleted regardless of whether the existing backups fully cover the backup piece.

       
     
     * If the `backup_dest` of the `piece_id` to be deleted is the same as the destination specified in the `backup_dest` configuration item, the backup pieces must be deleted in a specific order to prevent log discontinuity. For example, backup pieces with `piece_id` of `1`, `2`, and `3` must be deleted in the order of `1` first, followed by `2`, and `3` last. Otherwise, the constraint on the deletion order of backup pieces does not apply.

       
     

     
   
   * Clear all data in a log backup round with the specified `round_id`

     ```sql
     obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE BACKUPROUND round_id;
     ```

     

     The constraints on the `DELETE BACKUPPIECE` command also apply on the `DELETE BACKUPROUND` command:
     * You can only delete backup rounds in the Stop status.

       
     
     * If the `backup_dest` of the `round_id` to be deleted is the same as the destination specified in the `backup_dest` configuration item, and the existing backups do not fully cover the backup round, the corresponding `round_id` cannot be deleted. Otherwise, the corresponding `round_id` can be deleted regardless of whether the existing backups fully cover the backup round.

       
     
     * If the `backup_dest` of the `round_id` to be deleted is the same as the destination specified in the `backup_dest` configuration item, the backup rounds must be deleted in a specific order to prevent log discontinuity. For example, backup rounds with `round_id` of `1`, `2`, and `3` must be deleted in the order of `1` first, followed by `2`, and `3` last. Otherwise, the constraint on the deletion order of backup rounds does not apply.

       
     

     
   

   




Clear expired backups 
------------------------------------------

1. Log on to the database as the root user of the sys tenant.

   

2. Run the following command to clear expired backups: 

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE OBSOLETE;
   ```

   

   The `DELETE OBSOLETE` command has the following constraints:
   * If no or only one valid backup set exists, the data of archived logs cannot be cleared if it is split into multiple backup pieces.

     
   
   * The `DELETE OBSOLETE` command only deletes expired backups whose storage path is the same as the destination specified in `backup_dest`. For more information about expired backups whose destination is changed, see **Clear specified backups** in this topic.

     
   
   * The `DELETE OBSOLETE` command does not delete secondary backups.

     
   
   * The command fails if the number of existing backup copies is smaller than the value specified for `backup_copies` in `backup_dest_option`.

     
   

   



