# Database-level character sets and collations

Every database is created with a default character set and collation.

## Specify the character set and collation of a database

You can execute the `CREATE DATABASE` statement to specify the character set and collation of a database by using the following syntax:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE database_name
    [DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET [=] charset_name
    [[DEFAULT] COLLATE [=] collation_name]

ALTER DATABASE database_name
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [[DEFAULT] COLLATE collation_name]   

```

The `CHARACTER SET` and `COLLATE` clauses allow you to create databases of different character sets and collations on the same OBServer node.

Here are some examples:

```sql
/* Create a latin1 database */
CREATE DATABASE latin1_db CHARSET latin1;

/* Change a utf8 database to a latin1 database */
CREATE DATABASE db CHARSET=utf8mb4;
ALTER DATABASE db CHARSET latin1;
```

## Select the character set and collation of a database

You can select the character set and collation of a database by using the following methods in OceanBase Database:

* If you specify both the `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name` parameters, the `charset_name` character set and `collation_name` collation are used.

* If you specify only the `CHARACTER SET charset_name` parameter, the specified `charset_name` character set and the associated default collation are used. To view the default collation for each character set, execute the `SHOW CHARACTER SET` statement.

* If you specify only the `COLLATE collation_name` parameter, the specified `collation_name` collation and the associated character set are used.

* If you do not specify the `CHARACTER SET` and `COLLATE` parameters, the character set and collation for the server are used.

You can specify the default character set and collation of a database by setting the `character_set_database` and `collation_database` variables. To view the default character set and collation of a specific database, execute the following statement:

```sql
USE database_name;
SELECT @@character_set_database, @@collation_database;
```

Or

```sql
SELECT DEFAULT_CHARACTER_SET_NAME, DEFAULT_COLLATION_NAME
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA WHERE SCHEMA_NAME = 'database_name';
```

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SET collation_database = 'latin1_swedish_ci';
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
