# Character sets and collations for character expressions

Every character expression has a character set and a collation.

## Specify the character set and collation for a character expression

The default character set and collation of a character expression, such as the simple statement `SELECT 'string'`, are defined by the `character_set_connection` and `collation_connection` variables.

You can use the following syntax of the `COLLATE` clause to specify the character set and collation for a character expression:

```sql
[_charset_name]'string' [COLLATE collation_name]
```

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT _utf8mb4'abc' COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
+------------------------------------------+
| _utf8mb4'abc' COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci |
+------------------------------------------+
| abc                                      |
+------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

When you specify the character set of a constant to `gb18030_2022` in an SQL statement, if the constant after `_gb18030_2022` is a hexadecimal number, the number is converted into the corresponding character in the `gb18030_2022` character set. If the constant after `_gb18030_2022` is a string, its character set is set to `gb18030_2022`.

```shell
obclient> SELECT _gb18030_2022 0xCDE5 AS c FROM DUAL;
+-----+
| c   |
+-----+
| B  |
+-----+
1 row in set


obclient> SELECT _gb18030_2022 'B' AS c FROM DUAL;
+-----+
| c   |
+-----+
| B  |
+-----+
1 row in set
```

## Select the character set and collation for a character expression

You can select the character set and collation for a character expression by using the following methods in OceanBase Database:

* If you specify both the `_charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name` parameters, the `charset_name` character set and `collation_name` collation are used.

* If you specify only the `_charset_name` parameter, the specified `charset_name` character set and the associated default collation are used. To view the default collation for each character set, execute the `SHOW CHARACTER SET` statement.

* If you specify only the `COLLATE collation_name` parameter, the character set specified for `character_set_connection` and the default collation specified for `collation collation_name` are used. `collation_name` must be a collation supported by the default character set.

* If neither `CHARACTER SET` nor `COLLATE` is specified, the character set specified for `character_set_connection` and the default collation specified for `collation collation_name` are used.
