# Character sets and collations for client connection

A connection refers to the session established when a client connects to a server for interactions. The client sends SQL statements, such as queries, by using the connection. The server sends responses, such as result sets and error messages, back to the client by using the connection.

## System variables of character sets and collations

The following character set and collation system variables are related to the client-server interaction:

* The `character_set_server` and `collation_server` variables specify the character set and collation of the server.

* The `character_set_database` and `collation_database` variables specify the default character set and collation for the database.

The server also uses the following system variables:

* `character_set_client` specifies the character set in which the statements are sent by the client.

* `character_set_connection` specifies the character set to which received statements are converted. The server converts the character set of the statement sent by the client from `character_set_client` to `character_set_connection`.

* `collation_connection` specifies the character set and collation used by the connection. `collation_connection` is crucial for string comparison.

* `character_set_results` specifies the character set for the server to return query results to the client, including data results (such as column values), metadata (such as column names), and error messages. If you do not need to convert result sets or error messages, set `character_set_results` to `NULL` or binary by using the following syntax:

   ```sql
   SET character_set_results = NULL;
   SET character_set_results = binary;
   ```

To view all character set and collation system variables, execute the following statements:

```sql
obclient> SHOW SESSION VARIABLES LIKE 'character\_set\_%';
+--------------------------+---------+
| Variable_name            | Value   |
+--------------------------+---------+
| character_set_client     | latin1  |
| character_set_connection | latin1  |
| character_set_database   | utf8mb4 |
| character_set_filesystem | binary  |
| character_set_results    | latin1  |
| character_set_server     | utf8mb4 |
| character_set_system     | utf8mb4 |
+--------------------------+---------+
7 rows in set

obclient> SHOW SESSION VARIABLES LIKE 'collation\_%';
+----------------------+--------------------+
| Variable_name        | Value              |
+----------------------+--------------------+
| collation_connection | latin1_swedish_ci  |
| collation_database   | utf8mb4_general_ci |
| collation_server     | utf8mb4_general_ci |
+----------------------+--------------------+
3 rows in set
```

## Configure SQL statements for client character sets

After it establishes the connection, the client can change the character set and collation system variables of the current session. Execute the following `SET` statements:

* `SET NAMES 'charset_name'`

   This statement specifies the character set that the client uses in subsequent requests. It is equivalent to the following three statements:

   ```sql
   SET character_set_client = charset_name;
   SET character_set_results = charset_name;
   SET character_set_connection = charset_name;
   ```

   To specify a collation for `collation_connection`, add a `COLLATE` clause:

   ```sql
   SET NAMES 'charset_name' COLLATE 'collation_name'
   ```

* `SET CHARACTER SET 'charset_name'`

   This statement is similar to `SET NAMES`, but it sets `character_set_connection` and `collation_connection` to the default values of the `character_set_database` and `collation_database`. It is equivalent to the following three statements:

   ```sql
   SET character_set_client = charset_name;
   SET character_set_results = charset_name;
   SET collation_connection = @@collation_database;
   ```
