# Overview

OceanBase Database supports role management in Oracle mode.

In Oracle mode, a role is a set of system privileges and object privileges. You can use roles to manage user privileges.

In OceanBase Database, you can perform the following operations on roles:

* You can grant system privileges or object privileges to roles.

* You can assign a role to another role. This means that a role can contain other roles.

* A user can have several roles, and a role can be assigned to several users.

By default, OceanBase Database provides the following system roles:

* `CONNECT` role

   This role provides the `CREATE SESSION` privilege, which is a system privilege. To grant the `CREATE SESSION` privilege to a user, you can grant this privilege or assign the `CONNECT` role to the user.

* `RESOURCE` role

   This role provides the following system privileges: `CREATE CLUSTER`, `CREATE INDEXTYPE`, `CREATE OPERATOR`, `CREATE PROCEDURE`, `CREATE SEQUENCE`, `CREATE TABLE`, `CREATE TRIGGER`, and `CREATE TYPE`.

   To view the privileges of the role, query the `DBA_SYS_PRIVS` dictionary view

* `DBA` role

   This role is powerful and provides a large number of system privileges, such as `DELETE ANY TABLE` and `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE`.

   To view the privileges of the role, query the `DBA_SYS_PRIVS` dictionary view

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>To ensure the security of OceanBase Database, we recommend that you assign this role to a user only when the role is necessary for your business. </p>
  </main>

* `PUBLIC` role

   This role applies to all users in a tenant. By default, no privilege is granted to the role.

   If you grant a privilege to the `PUBLIC` role, all users in the tenant have the privilege. This means that all users can immediately perform operations that are authorized by the privilege.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>To ensure the security of OceanBase Database, we recommend that you grant privileges to the PUBLIC role only when the privileges are necessary. </p>
  </main>

