# BLOB types

A `BLOB` is a binary large object that can store a variable amount of data.

`BLOB` types are classified into `TINYBLOB`, `BLOB`, `MEDIUMBLOB`, and `LONGBLOB`. The maximum length of stored values is different for the four types.

`BLOB` values are treated as binary strings (or byte strings) that use the binary character set and collation. Comparison and sorting are based on the numeric values of bytes in the column values.

When strict SQL mode is not enabled, if the value assigned to a `BLOB` column exceeds the maximum length of the column, the excess part of the value is truncated, and an alert is generated. In strict SQL mode, if non-space characters are truncated, an error instead of an alert occurs, and the insertion of the value is prohibited.

## TINYBLOB

The maximum length of a `TINYBLOB` column is 256` `bytes.

Each `TINYBLOB` value is stored with a one-byte prefix that indicates the number of bytes in the value. Syntax:

```sql
TINYBLOB
```

## BLOB

The maximum length of a `BLOB` column is 65,536 bytes.

Each `BLOB` value is stored with a two-byte prefix that indicates the number of bytes in the value. You can specify an optional length `M` for a `BLOB` column. Syntax:

```sql
BLOB[(M)]
```

## MEDIUMBLOB

The maximum length of a `MEDIUMBLOB` column is 16,777,216 bytes.

Each `MEDIUMBLOB` value is stored with a three-byte prefix that indicates the number of bytes in the value. Syntax:

```sql
MEDIUMBLOB
```

## LONGBLOB

The maximum length of a `LONGBLOB` column is 50,331,648 bytes` `(48 MB). The maximum length of the `LONGBLOB` column also depends on the maximum packet size and available memory configured in the client/server protocol.

Each `LONGBLOB` value is stored with a four-byte prefix that indicates the number of bytes in the value. Syntax:

```sql
LONGBLOB
```
