# TEXT types

`TEXT` types are used to store text data.

TEXT types are classified into `TINYTEXT`, `TEXT`, `MEDIUMTEXT`, and `LONGTEXT`. The four text types correspond to four `BLOB` types and have the same maximum length and storage requirements.

The values of the `TEXT` types are treated as non-binary strings. They have a character set other than binary, and are sorted and compared based on the collation of the character set.

When strict SQL mode is not enabled, if the value assigned to a `TEXT` column exceeds the maximum length of the column, the excess part of the value is truncated, and an alert is generated. In strict SQL mode, if non-space characters are truncated, an error instead of an alert occurs, and the insertion of the value is prohibited. When excess trailing spaces in the value inserted into a `TEXT` column are truncated, an alert is generated, regardless of the SQL mode.

## TINYTEXT

The maximum length of a `TINYTEXT` column is 256 characters.

Each `TINYTEXT` value is stored with a one-byte prefix that indicates the number of bytes in the value. Syntax:

```sql
TINYTEXT [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

The `CHARACTER SET` attribute specifies the character set. If necessary, you can use `COLLATE` and other attributes to specify the collation of the character set. If `CHARACTER SET` specifies the binary character set, the column is created as a binary string column, and the `TEXT` type changes to the `BLOB` type.

## TEXT

The maximum length of a `TEXT` column is 65,536 characters.

Each `TEXT` value is stored with a two-byte prefix that indicates the number of bytes in the value. You can specify an optional length `M` for the `TEXT` type. Syntax:

```sql
TEXT[(M)] [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

The `CHARACTER SET` attribute specifies the character set. If necessary, you can use `COLLATE` and other attributes to specify the collation of the character set.  If `CHARACTER SET` specifies the binary character set, the column is created as a binary string column, and the `TEXT` type changes to the `BLOB` type.

## MEDIUMTEXT

The maximum length of a `MEDIUMTEXT` column is 16,777,216 characters.

Each `MEDIUMTEXT` value is stored with a three-byte prefix that indicates the number of bytes in the value.

Syntax:

```sql
MEDIUMTEXT [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

The `CHARACTER SET` attribute specifies the character set. If necessary, you can use `COLLATE` and other attributes to specify the collation of the character set. If `CHARACTER SET` specifies the binary character set, the column is created as a binary string column, and the `TEXT` type changes to the `BLOB` type.

In addition, OceanBase Database supports the extended `LONG` type, but we recommend that you use `MEDIUMTEXT`.

## LONGTEXT

The maximum length of a `LONGTEXT` column is 50,331,648 characters or` `48 MB. The maximum valid length of a `LONGTEXT` column also depends on the maximum packet size and available memory configured in the client/server protocol.

Each `LONGTEXT` value is stored with a four-byte prefix that indicates the number of bytes in the value. Syntax:

```sql
LONGTEXT [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

The `CHARACTER SET` attribute specifies the character set. If necessary, you can use `COLLATE` and other attributes to specify the collation of the character set. If `CHARACTER SET` specifies the binary character set, the column is created as a binary string column, and the `TEXT` type changes to the `BLOB` type.
