# Overview

OceanBase Database is a distributed database management system designed for enterprises. Powered by an encompassing ecosystem, it can tackle complex business tasks with excellent transactional and analytical processing capabilities. Developed from scratch, OceanBase Database combines the high scalability of a distributed system and the high efficiency of a centralized system into an integrated architecture that supports hybrid transactional and analytical processing (HTAP). The architecture also provides the same level of atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID) for transaction processing in both stand-alone and distributed deployment modes. OceanBase Database supports multi-replica synchronization based on the Paxos protocol to guarantee consistency among multiple data replicas, and ensures database service availability by quickly performing replica switchover in the case of hardware failures. In addition, OceanBase Database is compatible with MySQL syntaxes. You can conveniently migrate your business systems from a MySQL database to an OceanBase database. Code-based compression algorithms are used to significantly reduce the required storage space.

OceanBase Database ranks first in running the TPC-C benchmark with a score of 707 million tpmC and ranks second in running the TPC-H benchmark with a result of 15 million QphH@30000 GB.

OceanBase Database has supported the stable and efficient operation of core business systems of customers in various industries, such as banking, insurance, transportation, and telecommunication.

## Core features

OceanBase Database provides the following features:

* Stability

   OceanBase Database has successfully powered nine Double Eleven Shopping Festivals and has been tested in core systems of Ant Group with more than a million servers. It can recover from single-server failures and supports multi-IDC geo-disaster recovery, such as the innovative Five IDCs across Three Regions deployment mode, which meets the tier-six disaster recovery requirements of the financial industry with a zero recovery point objective (RPO) and a recovery time objective (RTO) less than 8 seconds.

* High performance in massive data processing

   OceanBase Database supports online transaction processing (OLTP) and online analytical processing (OLAP) of massive data. OLTP and OLAP resources are isolated from each other and can be linearly scaled. OceanBase Database crunched data at 707 million tpmC in the last TPC-C benchmark test and achieved a result of 15.26 million QphH@30000 GB in the last TPC-H benchmark test.

* Significantly improved KV query performance

   OceanBase Database supports OBKV to provide NoSQL capabilities for HBase and Table models. When secondary indexes are used, the performance of OBKV is exponentially improved, which avoids HBase performance jitters.

* Lower storage and O&M costs

   OceanBase Database can be deployed on PC servers with low-end SSDs. Its high compression ratio reduces storage costs, and its decentralized multitenancy architecture greatly improves the utilization of computing resources. It also supports popular tools in the database ecosystem, such as Prometheus and Canal, and its integrated architecture makes O&M easier.

* Responsive to community members

   OceanBase engineers respond quickly to questions of community users. The community provides features such as comprehensive documentation, engaging forum, skill sharing, and event organization, and provides training programs to grow with users.

* Compatible with the open source ecosystem of MySQL

   OceanBase Database is highly compatible with the MySQL ecosystem and provides modular tools that allow users to manage the entire lifecycle of a database, covering development, debugging, production, O&M, and data transmission.