# Overview

This topic describes the O&M and management operations in OBKV-HBase.

## Cluster management

An OBKV-HBase cluster is a normal OceanBase cluster for a MySQL tenant. The O&M and management operations on an OBKV-HBase cluster are the same as the general O&M and management operations on an OceanBase cluster.

For more information, see topics under [Manage clusters](../../../600.manage/100.cluster-management/100.cluster-management-overview.md).

## Tenant management

An OBKV-HBase tenant is a normal MySQL tenant. The O&M and management operations on an OBKV-HBase tenant are the same as the general O&M and management operations on an OceanBase Database tenant.

For more information, see topics under [Manage tenants](../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/100.tenant-introduction.md).

## Replica management

The replica O&M and management operations in OBKV-HBase are the same as the general replica O&M and management operations in OceanBase Database.

For more information, see topics under [Manage replicas](../../../600.manage/300.replica-management/100.replica-introduction.md).

## High availability

The high availability of OBKV-HBase relies on the high availability of the entire link, namely, the high availability of OBServer nodes, OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP), and the client on the link. OBKV-HBase inherits the high availability capability of OceanBase Database on the server side, and supports deployment for direction connection and connection through ODP respectively.

OceanBase Database provides a variety of technologies for ensuring high availability of services, including intra-cluster multi-replica disaster recovery, arbitration-based disaster recovery, and inter-cluster Physical Standby Database disaster recovery. For more information, see topics under [High availability](../../../600.manage/400.high-availability/100.disaster-recovery-management-overview.md).

For more information about high availability of OBKV-HBase, see [High availability](../300.obkv-hbase-manage/50.obkv-hbase-high-availability.md).

## Security and permissions

As the final data carrier, OceanBase Database prioritizes data security. OceanBase Database provides a full range of enterprise-level security features to ensure data security for users. The security features include identity authentication, access control, and data encryption.

For more information about security and permissions in OBKV-HBase, see [Security and permissions](../300.obkv-hbase-manage/100.obkv-hbase-security.md).

## Backup and restore

OBKV-HBase reuses the backup and restore capability of OceanBase Database.

For more information, see topics under [Backup and restore](../../../600.manage/600.backup-and-recovery/100.overview-of-physical-backup-and-recovery.md).

## Logs

For information about log levels and how to view logs, see topics under [Logs](../../../600.manage/800.logging/100.logging-overview.md).

## Monitoring metrics

For information about monitoring metrics in OBKV-HBase, see [Monitoring metrics](../../../650.obkv/200.obkv-hbase/300.obkv-hbase-manage/200.obkv-hbase-monitor-items.md).