# Verify after deployment

After you create an OceanBase Database tenant, you can verify the connectivity between the OBProxy service and OceanBase Database by using the following method:

Use the MySQL Command Line Client or OBClient to log on to the endpoint (IP address:port format) of OBProxy. Ensure that you can connect to OceanBase Database and run the test statements.

Example:

```shell
mysql -h[IP address of OBProxy] -P2883 -uroot@[Tenant name]#[Cluster name] -Dtest -p'test' -c -Ne "SELECT 'ok'"
Warning: Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
+----+
| ok |
+----+
```

> **Note**
>
> Connection parameters and descriptions:
>
> * -h: specifies the IP address to connect to OceanBase Database, which is usually an OBProxy domain name.
> * -u: specifies the connection account of the tenant. Supported formats: `User name@Tenant name#Cluster name` and `Cluster name:Tenant name:User name`. The default username of the administrator of the MySQL tenant is root.
> * -P: specifies the OceanBase Database connection port, which is also the listening port of OBProxy.
> * -p: specifies the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible.
> * -c: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of MySQL.
> * -Ne: specifies to execute an SQL statement when connecting to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode.

**`OK`** in the response indicates that the test is successful, and the client has connected to the OBServer node through the OBProxy.
