OPEN
=========================

The `OPEN` stored procedure opens an internal or external `LOB` in the specified mode. Valid modes include read-only and read/write.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Syntax
-----------

```sql
DBMS_LOB.OPEN (
lob_loc   IN OUT NOCOPY BLOB,
open_mode IN            BINARY_INTEGER);

DBMS_LOB.OPEN (
lob_loc   IN OUT NOCOPY CLOB CHARACTER SET ANY_CS,
open_mode IN            BINARY_INTEGER);
```



Parameters
-------------



| **Parameter** | **Description** |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| lob_loc | The locator of the `LOB`. For more information, see [Considerations](../9300.dbms-lob-oracle/100.dbms-lob-overview-oracle.md).  |
| open_mode | The mode to open the LOB in. For `BLOB` and `CLOB` types, the mode can be `LOB_READONLY` or `LOB_READWRITE`.  |



Considerations
-------------

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>If you open a <code>LOB</code> in read-only mode and try to write to the <code>LOB</code>, an error will be returned. </p>
  </main>

* `OPEN` requires a round trip to the server for both internal and external `LOBs`.  For internal `LOBs`, `OPEN` triggers other code that relies on the `OPEN` call.



* You can choose not to wrap all `LOB` operations inside the Open/Close API. If you open a `LOB`, you must close it before you commit the transaction. An error is produced if you do not. When an internal `LOB` is closed, the functional and domain indexes on the `LOB` column are updated.



* If you commit a transaction before you close all the `LOBs` opened by the transaction, an error will be returned. When an error occurs, the openness of the open `LOBs` is discarded, but the transaction is committed. That is, all the changes made to the `LOB` and non-`LOB` data in the transaction are committed, but the domain-based and function-based indexes are not updated. If this happens, you must rebuild the functional and domain indexes on the `LOB` column.





