# FOUND_ROWS

## Syntax

```sql
FOUND_ROWS()
```

## Purpose

When you execute a `SELECT` statement, you can specify a `LIMIT` clause to restrict the number of rows returned from the database server to the client. In some cases, you do not need to execute the statement again to determine the number of rows returned by this statement with the absence of `LIMIT`. You can use `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` in the `SELECT` statement, and then call the `FOUND_ROWS()` function to determine the number of rows returned by this statement with the absence of `LIMIT`.

Here is an example:

```javascript
obclient> SELECT SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS * FROM tbl_name
     WHERE id > 100 LIMIT 10;
obclient> SELECT FOUND_ROWS();
```

The second `SELECT` statement returns a number, which indicates the number of rows returned by the first `SELECT` statement with the absence of the `LIMIT` clause. If you do not use `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` in the preceding `SELECT` statement, `FOUND_ROWS()` may return different results when the `LIMIT` clause is or is not used.

The number of valid rows returned by `FOUND_ROWS()` is instantaneous and cannot skip the statement after `SELECT SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS`. Save the value if you need to use it later.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS * FROM ... ;
obclient> SET @rows = FOUND_ROWS();
```

If you are using `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS`, the system must calculate the total number of rows in all result sets. However, this is still faster than running the query again without using the `LIMIT` clause, because the result sets do not need to be sent to the client.

`SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` and `FOUND_ROWS()` are very useful when you want to limit the number of rows returned by a query. You can also determine the number of rows in all the result sets without running the query again. For example, if a Web script presents a paged display containing links to the pages that show other sections of a search result You can use `FOUND_ROWS()` to determine the number of other pages that are needed to display the remaining results.

The application of `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` and `FOUND_ROWS()` for simple `SELECT` statements is more complex than the application for the `UNION` query. This is because the `LIMIT` clause may appear in multiple positions in `UNION`. It may apply to independent `SELECT` statements in `UNION` or the entire `UNION` result.

`SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` expects `UNION` to return the number of rows that must be returned when no global `LIMIT` clause exists. Conditions for using `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` and `UNION` in conjunction are as follows:

* The `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` keyword must appear in the first `SELECT` statement of `UNION`.

* The value of `FOUND_ROWS()` is accurate only when `UNION ALL` is used. If you use a `UNION` statement without specifying the ALL option, the delete operation occurs twice, and the value of `FOUND_ROWS()` only needs to be approximate.

* If the `UNION` statement does not contain a `LIMIT` clause, `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` is ignored, and the number of rows created in the temporary table for `UNION` is returned.

## Examples

```sql
obclient> SELECT SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS * FROM t2;
obclient> SELECT FOUND_ROWS();
+--------------+
| FOUND_ROWS() |
+--------------+
|            3 |
+--------------+
1 row in set
```
