|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# foreign_key_checks

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is introduced since OceanBase Database V2.1.</p>
</main>

## Description

`foreign_key_checks` specifies whether to enable `FOREIGN KEY` constraint check for DML or DDL statements.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This variable is valid only in the MySQL mode of OceanBase Database. </p>
</main>

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
|---------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type | Boolean |
| Default value | 1 |
| Value range | <li> `0`: disables FOREIGN KEY constraint check.   <li> `1`: enables FOREIGN KEY constraint check. |
| Applicable scope | <li> Global   <li> Session |
| Modifiable | Yes. It can be modified using the `SET` statement. |

## Considerations

The foreign key check is controlled by the `foreign_key_checks` variable, which is enabled by default. It is typically enabled during normal operations to enforce referential integrity.

Disabling `foreign_key_checks` can have positive impacts on the database in the following scenarios:

* Deleting a table referenced by a foreign key constraint. The referenced table can only be deleted after disabling `foreign_key_checks`. When a table is deleted, the constraints defined on the table are also removed.

* Reloading tables in a different order than required by the foreign key relationships.

* Speeding up data imports by disabling foreign key checks during data import operations.

* Performing `ALTER TABLE` operations on tables with foreign key relationships.​

However, disabling `foreign_key_checks` can have some negative impact in the following scenarios:

* Allowing the deletion of databases containing tables with foreign keys referenced by tables outside of the database.

* Allowing the deletion of tables with foreign keys referenced by other tables.

Enabling `foreign_key_checks` does not trigger a scan of table data. This means that the rows added to the table while `foreign_key_checks` was disabled will not be checked for consistency when `foreign_key_checks` is enabled again.

## Examples

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET foreign_key_checks=1;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL foreign_key_checks=1;
  ```

## References

[FOREIGN KEY constraints](../../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/400.database-objects/200.database-objects-of-mysql-mode/700.data-integrity-of-mysql-mode/200.integrity-constraint-type-of-mysql-mode/500.foreign-key-constraint-of-mysql-mode.md)