| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Rowid data types

Each row in the database has an address. Rowid data types store row addresses in the database and are divided into the ROWID and UROWID data types. This topic describes the rowid data types one by one.

## ROWID data type

The current OceanBase Database version supports logical `ROWIDs`. `ROWIDs` of an index organization table (IOT) are logical `ROWIDs`.

You can query the `ROWID` pseudocolumn to examine a `ROWID`. A value in this pseudocolumn is a string representing the address of a row. The data type of these strings is `ROWID`. You can also create a table that has a column of the `ROWID` type.

A `ROWID` is converted from a Base64-encoded string.

A `ROWID` cannot be directly used. For more information about its usage, see [ROWID pseudocolumn](../../200.pseudo-column-of-oracle-mode/600.rowid-pseudo-column-of-oracle-mode.md).

## UROWID data type

Universal ROWID (UROWID) is another type of rowid. `UROWIDs` support logical `ROWIDs`.

Some tables have rows with nonphysical or nonpermanent addresses or addresses that are not generated by OceanBase Database. For example, row addresses in an index-organized table are stored in the index leaves and can be moved.

OceanBase Database uses `UROWIDs` to store addresses of IOTs. An IOT has logical `UROWIDs` and stores them in the `ROWID` pseudocolumn.

OceanBase Database creates logical `ROWIDs` based on the primary keys of the tables. If the primary key does not change, the logical `ROWID` remains unchanged. The `ROWID` pseudocolumn of an IOT is of the `UROWID` data type. You can use the `SELECT ... ROWID` statement to query this pseudocolumn. To store the `ROWIDs` of an IOT, you can define a `UROWID` column and retrieve the values in the `ROWID` pseudocolumn into this column.
