|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Overview

This topic describes basic information about transactions and related control statements.

## About transactions

A database transaction consists of a series of operations on a database, which transforms the database from one consistent state to another. Typically, SQL statements in a transaction include DML statements as well as query statements. If a transaction only contains query statements, it is usually called a read-only transaction.


Before a transaction is committed, you can roll back it by using the `ROLLBACK` command. For more information about transactions, see [Overview of transactions](../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/800.transaction-management/100.transaction/100.transaction-introduction.md).

## Transaction control statements

The basic transaction control statements are as follows:

* [BEGIN](../600.transaction-in-develop-of-mysql-mode/200.start-a-transaction-of-mysql-mode.md): explicitly starts a transaction. It is optional.

   * If the value of the system variable `autocommit` is `0` for a tenant session, the autocommit mode is disabled. In this case, you do not need to explicitly issue the `BEGIN` command to combine multiple SQL statements into one transaction.  

   * If the value of the system variable `autocommit` is `1` for a tenant session, the autocommit mode is enabled. In this case, each SQL statement is an independent transaction. If you want a transaction that includes more than one statement, you can explicitly run the `BEGIN` command to start a transaction. In this case, the autocommit mode is disabled until the execution of the `COMMIT` or `ROLLBACK` statement.

* [SAVEPOINT](300.transaction-savepoints-of-mysql-mode/100.mark-a-savepoint-of-mysql-mode.md): marks a savepoint in a transaction. After the transaction is executed, you can roll back the transaction to the savepoint. Savepoints are optional. A transaction can have multiple savepoints.

* [COMMIT](../600.transaction-in-develop-of-mysql-mode/400.submit-transaction-of-mysql-mode.md): commits and ends the current transaction, permanently applies all the changes in the transaction, deletes all the savepoints, and releases the locks that the transaction holds.

* [ROLLBACK](../600.transaction-in-develop-of-mysql-mode/500.roll-back-transactions-of-mysql-mode.md): rolls back all the changes in a transaction or the changes after a specific savepoint, deletes all the savepoints in the statements that are rolled back, and releases the locks that the transaction holds.

On the command-line interface (CLI) of OceanBase Client (OBClient), you can run a transaction control command after the SQL prompt, or modify the `autocommit` variable at the session level to control whether to automatically commit transactions.

* If you run `SET autocommit` to set the `autocommit` variable, the variable takes effect immediately for the current session and becomes invalid after the session is closed.

* If you run `SET GLOBAL autocommit` to set the `autocommit` variable at the tenant level, the variable takes effect only after the session is closed.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>If the <code>autocommit</code> variable of a session is set to <code>0</code> and no transaction is explicitly committed, when the program terminates abnormally, OceanBase Database automatically rolls back the last uncommitted transaction. </p>
  </main>

## References

* [Start a transaction](../600.transaction-in-develop-of-mysql-mode/200.start-a-transaction-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Mark a savepoint](300.transaction-savepoints-of-mysql-mode/100.mark-a-savepoint-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Commit a transaction](../600.transaction-in-develop-of-mysql-mode/400.submit-transaction-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Roll back a transaction](../600.transaction-in-develop-of-mysql-mode/500.roll-back-transactions-of-mysql-mode.md)
