# Verify connectivity after tenant creation

After you create a business tenant, you can verify the connectivity between OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) and OceanBase Database by using the following method:

Use the MySQL Command Line Client or OBClient to log on to the endpoint (in the `IP address:port` format) of ODP. Ensure that you can connect to OceanBase Database and run the test statements.

## Connect to OceanBase Database

```sql
$obclient -h10.10.10.1 -P2883 -uuser_name@tenant_name#cluster_name -p
Enter password:
Welcome to the OceanBase.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your OceanBase connection id is 37676
Server version: OceanBase 4.0.0.0 (r101000022022120716-0d7927892ad6d830e28437af099f018b0ad9a322) (Built Dec  7 2022 16:22:15)

Copyright (c) 2000, 2018, OceanBase and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient [(none)]>
```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Connection parameters:</p>
    <ul>
    <li><code>-h</code>: specifies the IP address to connect to OceanBase Database, which is usually an ODP domain name. </li>
    <li><code>-u</code>: specifies the tenant account. Two account formats are supported: <strong>Username@Tenant name#Cluster name</strong> and <strong>Cluster name:Tenant name:Username</strong>. The default username of the administrator of a MySQL tenant is <code>root</code>. The default administrator username of an Oracle tenant is <code>SYS</code>. </li>
    <li><code>-P</code>: specifies the OceanBase Database connection port, which is also the listening port of ODP. </li>
    <li><code>-p</code>: specifies the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible. </li>
    <li><code>-c</code>: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of MySQL. </li>
    <li><code>-Ne</code>: specifies to execute an SQL statement when connecting to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

## More information

For more information about how to connect to a database, see [Overview](../../../../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/100.database-connection-with-client-of-mysql-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md).
