# obdiag

In OceanBase Database, a native distributed database system, root cause analysis for faults is complex because many factors may be involved, such as the server environment, parameters, and running load. Experts must collect and analyze extensive information during troubleshooting. Therefore, OceanBase Diagnostic Tool (obdiag) is introduced to help efficiently collect information scattered on various nodes. The obdiag code is fully open-source and available on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase-diagnostic-tool).

## What is obdiag?

obdiag is a CLI diagnostic tool designed for OceanBase Database. It scans and collects information such as the logs, SQL audit records, and the process stack information of OceanBase Database. You may deploy your OceanBase cluster by using OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) or OceanBase Deployer (OBD), or manually deploy it based on the OceanBase documentation. Regardless of the deployment mode, you can use obdiag to collect diagnostic information with a few clicks.

## Features

obdiag has the following features:

  * Cluster inspection: obdiag allows you to initiate inspections by using command lines to discover existing or potential causes of abnormal cluster behaviors and provides operational recommendations.
  * Information collection: obdiag allows you to use command lines to initiate the collection of diagnostic information scattered across different nodes and information packaging for transmission back to the obdiag machine.
  
  * Diagnostic analysis: obdiag allows you to initiate the analysis of OceanBase logs by using command lines to identify past error messages, and also supports end-to-end diagnostics based on trace.log.


## Release notes

For information about the release notes of obdig, see [Release note](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-obdiag-en-10000000001143808).

## References

For more information about obdiag, see the [obdiag documentation](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-obdiag-en-10000000001143804).