| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

9500 to 9999
=================================

These error codes indicate Procedural Language (PL) errors.

ERROR 9502 (HY000): OUT and IN/OUT modes cannot be used in this context
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9502

* Cause: The `OUT` keyword can be used in a dynamic DML statement only when the statement contains the `returning` variable but not the `INTO` keyword.

* Solution: Check whether the current statement syntax supports the `OUT` keyword.

ERROR 9503 (HY000): object '%.\*s' of type %.\*s not found in schema '%.\*s'
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9503

* Cause: No object identified by the specified type and name exists.

* Solution: Specify a valid object type and a valid object name.

ERROR 9506 (HY000): Only schema-level programs allow %s
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9506

* Cause: The `INVOKER RIGHT` clause can be defined only in a standalone procedure or function.

* Solution: Delete the `INVOKER RIGHT` clause.

ERROR 9507 (HY000): at most one declaration for '%.\*s' is permitted
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9507

* Cause: Duplicate identifiers exist in the same namespace.

* Solution: Make sure that identifiers in the same namespace are unique.

ERROR 9508 (HY000): duplicate fields in RECORD,TABLE or argument list are not permitted
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9508

* Cause: Duplicate parameters are specified in PL statements.

* Solution: Make sure that parameters in PL statements are unique.

ERROR 9509 (HY000): Pragma AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION cannot be specified here
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9509

* Cause: The current location of the autonomous transaction clause is not allowed. The clause can be placed only in a block at the first layer.

* Solution: Adjust the location of the autonomous transaction clause.

ERROR 9510 (HY000): illegal EXIT/CONTINUE statement; it must appear inside a loop
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9510

* Cause: The `EXIT` or `CONTINUE` clause is not used inside a loop.

* Solution: Make sure that the `EXIT` or `CONTINUE` clause is used inside a loop.

ERROR 9512 (HY000): EXIT/CONTINUE label '%.\*s' must label a LOOP statement
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9512

* Cause: The destination label of the `EXIT` or `CONTINUE` clause is invalid.

* Solution: Make sure that the destination label of the `EXIT` or `CONTINUE` clause is valid.

ERROR 9513 (HY000): expression '%.\*s' is inappropriate as the left hand side of an assignment statement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9513

* Cause: A static cursor cannot be used to assign a value.

* Solution: Make sure that the assignment statement is valid.

ERROR 9514 (HY000): a variable declared NOT NULL must have an initialization assignment
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9514

* Cause: A variable with the `NOT NULL` constraint is not explicitly initialized.

* Solution: Remove the `NOT NULL` constraint or explicitly initialize the variable.

ERROR 9515 (HY000): Constant declarations should contain initialization assignments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9515

* Cause: A constant variable is not explicitly initialized.

* Solution: Remove the constant declaration or explicitly initialize the variable.

ERROR 9516 (HY000): Cursor Variables cannot be declared as part of a package
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9516

* Cause: Cursor variables cannot be declared in a package.

ERROR 9518 (HY000): value in LIMIT clause: \\'%.\*s\\' use is invalid
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9518

* Cause: The data type of the expression in the `LIMIT` clause is invalid.

* Solution: Change the data type to a numeric data type.

ERROR 9519 (HY000): expression is of wrong type
---------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9519

* Cause: The result data type of the expression is invalid.

* Solution: Check the result data type of the expression.

ERROR 9520 (HY000): cannot compile body of '%.\*s' without its specification
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9520

* Cause: The specification of the user-defined type (UDT) is not declared.

* Solution: Declare the specification.

ERROR 9521 (HY000): subprogram '%.\*s' is declared in an object type body and must be defined in the object type specification
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9521

* Cause: The function definition of the object is not declared in the specification.

* Solution: Declare the function in the specification.

ERROR 9522 (HY000): subprogram or cursor '%.\*s' is declared in an object type specification and must be defined in the object type body
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9522

* Cause: The subprogram or cursor of the object is declared in the specification. It must be defined in the body.

* Solution: Delete or define the declaration.

ERROR 9523 (HY000): An object type may have only 1 MAP or 1 ORDER method
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9523

* Cause: One `MAP` function and one `ORDER` function are defined together. Only one `MAP` or one `ORDER` function can be defined for an object type.

* Solution: Retain only one of the `MAP` and `ORDER` functions.

ERROR 9524 (HY000): A MAP or ORDER function is required for comparing objects in PL/SQL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9524

* Cause: No `MAP` or `ORDER` function is defined for comparing object types in PL statements.

* Solution: Define an appropriate `MAP` or `ORDER` comparison function.

ERROR 9525 (HY000): Only a function may be a MAP, ORDER or CONSTRUCTOR method
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9525

* Cause: The `MAP`, `ORDER`, or `CONSTRUCTOR` method is not defined as a function.

* Solution: Modify the definition and rewrite the code.

ERROR 9526 (HY000): identifier '%.\*s' too long
---------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9526

* Cause: The label name is too long. It can be up to 128 characters in length.

* Solution: Modify the label name.

ERROR 9527 (HY000): a static method cannot be invoked on an instance value
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9527

* Cause: An instance cannot invoke static functions.

* Solution: Modify the invocation method to invoke functions by type name.

ERROR 9528 (HY000): constructor method name must match type name
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9528

* Cause: The constructor name is not the same as the type name.

* Solution: Make sure that the constructor name is the same as the type name.

ERROR 9529 (HY000): previous use of '%.\*s' conflicts with this use
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9529

* Cause: A name conflict occurred. For example, variables of different types have duplicate names.

* Solution: Make sure that each variable name is unique.

ERROR 9530 (HY000): the SELF parameter can be declared only as IN or as IN OUT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9530

* Cause: The modifier of the `SELF` parameter must be `IN` or `IN OUT`.

* Solution: Modify the modifier as required.

ERROR 9531 (HY000): MAP methods must return a scalar type
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9531

* Cause: A `MAP` function must return scalar values but not complex values.

* Solution: Change the type of returned values.

ERROR 9532 (HY000): MAP methods must be declared without any parameters other than (optional) SELF
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9532

* Cause: A `MAP` function can contain only the `SELF` parameter. The `SELF` parameter can be explicitly or implicitly defined.

* Solution: Remove the excess parameters.

ERROR 9533 (HY000): ORDER methods must return an INTEGER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9533

* Cause: An `ORDER` function must return integers.

* Solution: Change the type of returned values.

ERROR 9534 (HY000): The parameter type in an ORDER method must be the containing object type
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9534

* Cause: The parameter type of an `ORDER` function must be the same as the corresponding object type.

* Solution: Change the parameter type.

ERROR 9535 (HY000): Within SQL statements, only equality comparisons of objects are allowed without a map or order function
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9535

* Cause: Only equality comparison is allowed because the SQL statement contains no `MAP` or `ORDER` function.

* Solution: Add a `MAP` function or an `ORDER` function, or perform only equality comparison.

ERROR 9537 (HY000): The parameters to an ORDER function must have IN mode
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9537

* Cause: The parameter modifier of an `ORDER` function must be `IN`.

* Solution: Modify the parameter modifier.

ERROR 9538 (HY000): ORDER methods must be declared with 1 (one) parameter in addition to (optional) SELF
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9538

* Cause: An `ORDER` function cannot contain only the `SELF` parameter.

* Solution: Define a parameter of the required type in addition to the SELF parameter.

ERROR 9539 (HY000): type '%.\*s' is malformed because it is a non-REF mutually recursive type
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9539

* Cause: The type encountered a recursive reference.

* Solution: Remove the recursive reference.

ERROR 9540 (HY000): $ERROR: %.\*s
------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9540

* Cause: The `$ERROR` instruction triggered an expected error.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9541 (HY000): RETURN statement in a CONSTRUCTOR cannot include an expression
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9541

* Cause: The `RETURN` statement of the `CONSTRUCTOR` function cannot contain any expression.

* Solution: Remove the expression from the `RETURN` statement.

ERROR 9542 (HY000): wrong number or types of arguments in call to '%.\*s'
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9542

* Cause: No matching function was found when the subprocedure was called because the function name, number of parameters, or the parameter type is invalid.

* Solution: Check the specified function name, number of parameters, and parameter type. If the error persists, check the access scope of the function.

ERROR 9543 (HY000): '%.\*s' must be a type
----------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9543

* Cause: The type modifier used in the declaration or expression is invalid. For example, `%type` or `%rowtype` is missing.

* Solution: Modify the type modifier as required.

ERROR 9544 (HY000): too many declarations of '%.\*s' match this call
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9544

* Cause: Multiple function invocation methods are matched. This may be because multiple function invocation methods exist for the function to be invoked and no method can be exactly matched.

* Solution: Make sure that the function name and parameter type are valid.

ERROR 9694 (42000): Duplicate condition information item '%s'
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9694

* Cause: The definition of condition contains duplicate items.

* Solution: Remove duplicate items from the definition of the condition.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9695 (02000): Unhandled user-defined not found condition
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9695

* Cause: Undefined conditions are used.

* Solution: Use only defined conditions.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9743(HY000): Can't drop or alter a procedure/function from within another stored routine.Can't drop or alter a '%s' from within another stored routine

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9743
* Error code in MySQL: 1357

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9747 (HY000): malformed ps packet

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9747
* Cause: The format of the prepared statement packets sent by the client is invalid.
* Solution: Make sure that the version of the client matches that of the server.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9749 (HY000): object does not exist

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9749
* Cause: The requested object does not exist.
* Solution: Make sure that the specified name of the requested object is correct.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9750 (HY000): PL/SQL: index for PL/SQL table out of range for host language array

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9750
* Cause: When you use a PL/SQL table, the index values exceed the value range of the array.
* Solution: Make sure that the values of the index do not exceed the value range of the array.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9754 (HY000): debug_session_id = %u does not exist

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9754

* Cause: The session ID specified by `debug_session_id` does not exist.

* Solution: Verify whether the session ID exists.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

ERROR 20000 (HY000): The stored procedure 'raise_application_error' was called which causes this error to be generated","-%05ld: %.\*s
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 20000

* Cause: The `RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR` procedure was called. This error code is implicit and is specified by a user. Error codes that identify the `RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR` procedure range from 20000 to 20999.

* Solution: This user-defined error is explicitly thrown by a user, and troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 21000 (HY000): error number argument to raise_application_error of '%d' is out of range
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 21000

* Cause: The user-defined error code for the `RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR` procedure is invalid. The error code must range from 20000 to 20999.

* Solution: Specify an error code within the range of 20000 to 20999.

ERROR 32491 (HY000): snapshot expression not allowed here
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 32491

* Cause: The SNAPSHOT expression is not allowed in the current statement. The expression can be used only in a read-only statement.

* Solution: Remove the SNAPSHOT expression or set the statement to be a read-only statement.