| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# 10000 to 12000

These error codes indicate OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP), OB Sharding, OBKV, and client errors. 

## ERROR 10501 (HY000): TTL feature is not enabled

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10501

* Cause: The time-to-live (TTL) feature is disabled. 

* Solution: Make sure that the TTL feature is correctly enabled. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10502 (HY000): TTL column '%.*s' not exists

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10502

* Cause: The TTL column does not exist. 

* Solution: Verify whether the specified TTL column exists in the database table. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10503 (HY000): Column type of '%.*s' is not supported for TTL definition

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10503

* Cause: The specified column type cannot be used in TTL definitions. 

* Solution: Verify whether the specified column type is supported in TTL definitions. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10504 (HY000): TTL command is not allowed, current TTL status is '%s'

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10504

* Cause: The TTL command cannot be executed because the TTL feature is in a specific state. 

* Solution: Verify whether the current TTL state is as expected and use a proper TTL command to switch the status. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10505 (HY000): No TTL task is running, please try trigger a new TTL task

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10505

* Cause: No TTL task is running. You must try to trigger a new TTL task. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10506 (HY000): Cannot execute TTL task during tenant is restore

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10506

* Cause: TTL tasks cannot be executed during tenant restore. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10507 (HY000): Time to live of hbase table must be greater than 0

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10507

* Cause: The TTL of an HBase table must be greater than 0. 

* Solution: Check the `KV_ATTRIBUTES` attribute of the current table and make sure that the TTL defined for the table exceeds 0. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 10508 (HY000): MaxVersions of hbase table must be greater than 0

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 10508

* Cause: The `MaxVersions` value of an HBase table must be greater than 0. 

* Solution: Check the `KV_ATTRIBUTES` attribute of the current table and make sure that the specified `MaxVersions` value exceeds 0. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>