# 4500 - 4999

These error codes indicate RootService errors.

## ERROR 4507 (42000): Convert error

* OceanBase error code: 4507

* Cause: An IP address is included in a string.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4512 (HY000): RootServer state error

* OceanBase error code: 4512

* Cause: The current status of the RootServer does not support the operation.

* Solution: Check the current status of the RootServer. You can query the `__all_virtual_core_meta_table` table to check whether the RootServer is online.

## ERROR 4515 (HY000): No replica is valid

* OceanBase error code: 4515

* Cause: The replica status is invalid.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4519 (HY000): Iteration was stopped

* OceanBase error code: 4519

* Cause: This error code does not indicate an error but indicates that the MemTable iteration ends.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

## ERROR 4530 (HY000): Zone info \\'%s\\' not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4530

* Cause: The specified zone does not exist. Generally, this error occurs during a major compaction of a specified zone or a switchover of the primary zone.

* Solution: Check whether the specified zone exists. You can query the `DBA_OB_ZONES` table to obtain the required information.

## ERROR 4544 (42000): Root not integrated

* OceanBase error code: 4544

* Cause: During a rotating major compaction, the system checks whether the available replicas in each partition constitute the majority of replicas in the current partition. This error occurs if the available replicas in a partition are fewer than the majority of replicas.

* Solution: Immediately check why the majority of replicas in the partition are unavailable.

## ERROR 4547 (HY000): global merge not started

* OceanBase error code: 4547

* Cause: This error occurs in the precheck before a manual rotating major compaction. A manual major compaction is not allowed for a cluster if no major freeze has been initiated for the cluster.

* Solution: Check whether a major freeze has been initiated for the cluster.

## ERROR 4548 (HY000): merge already started

* OceanBase error code: 4548

* Cause: This error occurs in the precheck before a manual rotating major compaction. If a manual major compaction has been initiated for a zone, you cannot initiate another manual major compaction for the cluster.

* Solution: Check whether a manual major compaction has been initiated for the zone.

## ERROR 4549 (HY000): rootservice already exist

* OceanBase error code: 4549

* Cause: This code is returned in the self-check before the current RootService replica starts. If another RootService replica is already running, the current RootService replica does not start.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

## ERROR 4550 (HY000): rootservice is shutdown

* OceanBase error code: 4550

* Cause: The RootService replica that receives the current request is inactive because no leader is elected or the request is sent to a follower.

* Solution: Retry the request. If no leader is elected for RootService replicas, further troubleshooting is required.

## ERROR 4551 (HY000): server migrate in denied

* OceanBase error code: 4551

* Cause: The OBServer node fails to execute the `balance task` due to reasons such as a full disk or an excessive number of partitions. As a result, the OBServer node returns a package indicating the `balance task` execution failure to the RootService and returns this error code.

* Solution: The RootService automatically stops scheduling tasks to the OBServer node and then re-schedules tasks to the OBServer node after the specified period elapses. If the OBServer node continuously returns this error code, check whether the disk is overloaded and whether excessive partitions are in use.

## ERROR 4552 (HY000): rebalance task can not executing now

* OceanBase error code: 4552

* Cause: Before executing a `balance task`, the RootService checks whether the leader is successfully switched, whether the replica already exists on the destination server, and whether the replica schema exists. If the check results indicate that the `balance task` cannot be executed, the task execution ends, and this error is returned.

* Solution: Check the execution conditions of the `balance task` and identify the specific cause of the execution failure. For example, if the leader fails to be switched before migration, identify the cause of the leader switchover failure.

## ERROR 4554 (HY000): rebalance task not in progress on observer

* OceanBase error code: 4554

* Cause: The RootService periodically sends RPC packets to the OBServer node to check whether each `balance task` exists. If a `balance task` no longer exists, the RootService marks the end of the `balance task` and returns this error code.

* Solution: This error usually occurs if the response from meta_table is delayed or the response from the `balance task` to the RootService is lost. Usually, troubleshooting is not required.

## ERROR 4605 (HY000): Data source timeout

* OceanBase error code: 4605

* Cause: The current RPC timed out during migration and replication at the storage layer.

* Solution: Check the cause of the timeout error, or extend the timeout period.

## ERROR 4615 (HY000): tablegroup is not empty

* OceanBase error code: 4615

* Cause: When you delete a table group, this error occurs in any one of the following scenarios:

   * The specified table group contains tables.

   * The table group specified by the `default_tablegroup_id` parameter of the database is deleted.

   * The table group specified by the `default_tablegroup_id` parameter of the tenant is deleted.

* Solution: Delete all tables in the specified table group but retain the table group specified by the `default_tablegroup_id` parameter.

## ERROR 4620 (HY000): server status is not valid

* OceanBase error code: 4620

* Cause: One or more OBServer node parameters are invalid.

* Solution: Modify the OBServer node parameter settings.

## ERROR 4621 (HY000): wait elect partition leader timeout

* OceanBase error code: 4621

* Cause: Leader election timed out.

* Solution: Check the cause of the timeout, or extend the timeout period.

## ERROR 4622 (HY000): wait all rs online timeout

* OceanBase error code: 4622

* Cause:

   1. The system checks whether the OBServer node that runs the RootService is in the `ALIVE` state during bootstrapping. This error occurs if the server is not in the `ALIVE` state.

   2. The system checks whether the OBServer node that runs the RootService is in the `in_service` state or whether the value of `start_service_time` is `0` during bootstrapping. This error occurs if the server is not in the `in_service` state or the value of `start_service_time` is not `0`.

* Solution: Check the cause of the timeout, or extend the timeout period.

## ERROR 4624 (HY000): zone '%s' server \'%s\' %s resource is not enough to hold a new unit

* OceanBase error code: 4624

* Cause:

   1. The system checks whether resources are sufficient during resource allocation in scenarios such as creating or modifying a resource pool, migrating resource units, or supplementing replicas. This error occurs if resources are insufficient.

   2. The system checks whether resources are sufficient when you create a table. This error occurs if resources are insufficient.

* Solution: Adjust the amount of resources to be allocated based on the specific cause.

<!-- The troubleshooting knowledge base entry:

[Table creation failure (error code 4624)](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-20000000181?back=kb) -->

## ERROR 4626 (HY000): resource pool \\'%s\\' has already been granted to a tenant

* OceanBase error code: 4626

* Cause: The resource pool is being used by a tenant.

* Solution: Query the `__all_resource_pool` table to obtain the `tenant_id` value of the tenant that is using the resource pool. Then, perform one of the following operations:

   * Delete the tenant.

   * Remove the resource pool from the tenant.

   * Create another resource pool without using the current resource pool.

<!-- The troubleshooting knowledge base entry:

[Resource pool error (error code 4626)](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-20000010169?back=kb) -->

## ERROR 4628 (HY000): server has already been deleted

* OceanBase error code: 4628

* Cause: The specified OBServer node is already in the Deleting state, and you cannot run the `delete server` command on the OBServer node again.

* Solution: This error is reported for defense purposes, indicating that you cannot run the `delete server` command again.

## ERROR 4629 (HY000): server is not in deleting status

* OceanBase error code: 4629

* Cause: This error is reported for defense purposes, indicating that the `delete server` task has ended.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4630 (HY000): server not in server white list

* OceanBase error code: 4630

* Cause: The OBServer node is not in the current cluster. This error is an internal error and may occur in one of the following scenarios:

   * The RootService is switched to the server but has not provided services.

   * The cluster is in the bootstrapping process.

   * The `add server` command is not run for the server.

   * The server sends a request to the current cluster.

* Solution:

   * If the RootService is switched to the server but has not provided services or the cluster is in the bootstrapping process, and this error occurs only temporarily, troubleshooting is not required.

   * If the `add server` command is not run for the server, run the `add server` command.

   * If the cluster also exists in another database, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4631 (HY000): server zone not match

* OceanBase error code: 4631

* Cause: This error is reported for defense purposes, indicating that the OBServer node and zone specified for the `start server`, `delete server`, or `stop server` command do not match.

* Solution: If a zone is specified, check whether the OBServer node and zone in the `__all_server` table match.

## ERROR 4632 (HY000): zone num has reach max zone num

* OceanBase error code: 4632

* Cause: This error is reported for defense purposes when you run the `add zone` command, indicating that the number of existing zones exceeds 64.

* Solution: Run the `delete zone` command to remove zones that are not in use.

## ERROR 4633 (HY000): zone status not match

* OceanBase error code: 4633

* Cause: This error is reported for defense purposes when you run the `delete/start zone` command. When you run the `delete zone` command, the specified zone must be in the `inactive` state. When you run the `start zone` command, the specified zone must be in a state other than `active`.

* Solution: Query the `DBA_OB_ZONES` table to check the status of the zone. If the zone is in an unexpected state, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4634 (HY000): resource unit \\'%s\\' is referenced by some resource pool

* OceanBase error code: 4634

* Cause: The resource unit to be deleted or used is being referenced by a resource pool.

* Solution:

   1. Query the `__all_unit_config` or `__all_resource_pool` table to find the resource pool that is referencing the resource unit.

   2. Execute the `ALTER RESOURCE POOL` statement to remove the resource unit from the resource pool, or execute the `DROP RESOURCE POOL` statement to directly delete the resource pool.

   3. Execute the `DROP RESOURCE UNIT` or `ALTER RESOURCE POOL` statement to delete or directly use the resource unit.

## ERROR 4636 (HY000): table schema primary zone different with other table in same tablegroup

* OceanBase error code: 4636

* Cause: This error is reported for defense purposes. It indicates that the `primary_zone` setting of the table to be added to a table group does not match that of other tables in the table group.

* Solution: Make sure that the `primary_zone` settings of all tables in a table group are identical.

## ERROR 4637 (HY000): server is not active

* OceanBase error code: 4637

* Cause: This error is an internal error, indicating that the specified OBServer node is in the `inactive` state.

* Solution: Generally, troubleshooting is not required. For more information, contact OceanBase Technical Support.

## ERROR 4638 (HY000): The RootServer is not the master

* OceanBase error code: 4638

* Cause: The RootService is switched to another server, or the RootService is being restarted.

* Solution: Generally, you can retry later. If the error persists, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4640 (HY000): The chosen partition servers belong to same zone

* OceanBase error code: 4640

* Cause: OBServer nodes in the `rs_list` parameter specified in the bootstrap command correspond to the same zone.

* Solution: In a partition, one zone can contain only one Paxos member. Modify the zone settings of OBServer nodes in the `rs_list` parameter specified in the bootstrap command.

## ERROR 4641 (HY000): Duplicated zone \\'%s\\' in zone list %s

* OceanBase error code: 4641

* Cause: Specific zones in the `zone_list` parameter are duplicated.

* Solution: Remove redundant zones from the `zone_list` parameter.

## ERROR 4646 (HY000): tenant name \\'%s\\' over max_tenant_name_length %ld

* OceanBase error code: 4646

* Cause: The `tenant_name` parameter is invalid. For example, no value is specified for the parameter, or the value contains more than 64 characters.

* Solution: Modify the `tenant_name` parameter.

## ERROR 4647 (HY000): resource pool list is empty

* OceanBase error code: 4647

* Cause: No resource pool is specified when you create a tenant.

* Solution: Specify a resource pool when you create a tenant.

## ERROR 4648 (HY000): resource unit \\'%s\\' not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4648

* Cause: The specified resource unit specification does not exist.

* Solution: Check whether the specified resource pool exists.

## ERROR 4649 (HY000): resource unit \\'%s\\' already exist

* OceanBase error code: 4649

* Cause: A resource unit specification with the specified name already exists.

* Solution: Specify another name for the resource unit specification to be created.

## ERROR 4650 (HY000): resource pool \\'%s\\' not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4650

* Cause: The specified resource pool does not exist.

* Solution: Check whether the specified resource pool exists.

## ERROR 4651 (HY000): resource pool \\'%s\\' exist

* OceanBase error code: 4651

* Cause: A resource pool with the specified name already exists.

* Solution: Specify another name for the resource pool to be created.

## ERROR 4652 (HY000): wait leader switch timeout

* OceanBase error code: 4652

* Cause: The system failed to stop the zone or OBServer node because the leader switchover timed out.

* Solution: Extend the timeout period, or contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4653 (HY000): location not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4653

* Cause: Location information is not found during SQL execution.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4654 (HY000): location leader not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4654

* Cause: No leader is found in location information during SQL execution.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4655 (HY000): zone not active

* OceanBase error code: 4655

* Cause: The specified zone is inactive.

* Solution: Wait until the zone is active and try again.

## ERROR 4656 (HY000): resource pool unit num is bigger than zone server count

* OceanBase error code: 4656

* Cause: The number of resource units in a zone is greater than the number of OBServer nodes in the zone.

* Solution: Make sure that the number of resource units in the zone is less than the number of OBServer nodes in the zone.

The troubleshooting knowledge base entry:

<!-- [Resource pool error (error code 4656)](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-20000000092?back=kb) -->

## ERROR 4657 (HY000): resource pool list %s unit servers intersect

* OceanBase error code: 4657

* Cause: Zones in the resource pools of a tenant have one or more intersections.

* Solution: Make sure that zones in all resource pools of the tenant have no intersection.

<!-- The troubleshooting knowledge base entry:

[Resource pool error (error code 4657)](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-20000010170?back=kb) -->

## ERROR 4659 (HY000): invalid %s value, min value is %s

* OceanBase error code: 4659

* Cause: The specified resource unit specification is invalid.

* Solution: Set the resource unit specification to be within the range of `min_val` to `max_val`.

## ERROR 4660 (HY000): Can not stop server in multiple zones, there are already servers stopped in zone:%s

* OceanBase error code: 4660

* Cause: You have attempted to stop OBServer nodes in multiple zones at a time.

* Solution: Make sure that you stop OBServer nodes only in one zone at a time.

## ERROR 4661 (HY000): Session already exist

* OceanBase error code: 4661

* Cause: The session to be created conflicts with an existing session.

* Solution: This error rarely occurs. If this error occurs, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR (HY000): Timeout OB_GET_LOCATION_TIME_OUT

* OceanBase error code: 4664

* Cause: A timeout error occurred when the system queried the `location cache` during SQL execution.

* Solution: Extend the timeout period, or contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4666 (HY000): cluster name does not match to \\'%s\\'

* OceanBase error code: 4666

* Cause: The `cluster name` specified in the command is invalid.

* Solution: Execute the `show parameters where name ='cluster'` statement to obtain the valid `cluster name`.

## ERROR 4667 (HY000): Please check new zone in zone_merge_order. You can show parameters like 'zone_merge_order'

* OceanBase error code: 4667

* Cause: The `zone_merge_order` parameter was specified when you ran the `add zone` command. However, the `zone_merge_order` parameter was not modified when you performed the current operation.

* Solution: Execute the `show parameters like 'zone_merge_order'` statement to query the `zone_merge_order` parameter and modify it.

## ERROR 4668 (HY000): The zone is not empty and can not be deleted. You should delete the servers of the zone. There are %ld servers alive and %ld not alive

* OceanBase error code: 4668

* Cause: The zone to be deleted contains servers.

* Solution: Delete all OBServer nodes from the zone and then delete the zone.

## ERROR 4671 (HY000): full replica num not enough

* OceanBase error code: 4671

* Cause: No `FULL` replica (full-featured replica) was created when you created a partition.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4672 (HY000): replica num not enough

* OceanBase error code: 4672

* Cause: The available replicas in a partition are fewer than the majority of replicas.

* Solution: Check the number of available replicas in the corresponding partition.

## ERROR 4674 (HY000): run job not success yet

* OceanBase error code: 4674

* Cause: In OceanBase File System (OFS) deployment mode, a block recycling task is scheduled before the previous task is accepted.

* Solution: Generally, troubleshooting is not required. For more information, contact OceanBase Technical Support.

## ERROR 4675 (HY000): no need to rebuild

* OceanBase error code: 4675

* Cause: The logs of the replica to be rebuilt are updated to the latest version.

* Solution: Do not perform a rebuild operation on the replica.

## ERROR 4676 (HY000): need remove unneed table

* OceanBase error code: 4676

* Cause: A MemTable is not released after a minor compaction and is involved in a subsequent minor compaction.

* Solution: Generally, troubleshooting is not required. For more information, contact OceanBase Technical Support.

## ERROR 4677 (HY000): no need to merge

* OceanBase error code: 4677

* Cause: No MemTable or SSTable matching the minor compaction condition is found for the current minor compaction scheduling.

* Solution: Generally, troubleshooting is not required. For more information, contact OceanBase Technical Support.

## ERROR 4681 (HY000): rpc need reconnect

* OceanBase error code: 4681

* Cause: The logical migration feature is no longer in use.

## ERROR 4683 (HY000): src do not allowed migrate

* OceanBase error code: 4683

* Cause: Data cannot be migrated from the source database when the source database is being deleted.

* Solution: Try again.

## ERROR 4684 (HY000): Too many partitions were defined for this tenant

* OceanBase error code: 4684

* Cause: The number of partitions of the tenant has reached the upper limit, and you cannot create more partitions for the tenant.

* Solution: Check whether the recycle bin contains partitions.

   1. If yes, run the `purge recyclebin` command under the tenant. After a garbage collection (GC) is completed for partitions, some memory space can be released.

   2. If no, you must allocate more memory space to the tenant to create more partitions.

## ERROR 4685 (HY000): active memtable not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4685

* Cause: No active MemTable exists.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4686 (HY000): Should use leader replica for duplicate table after DML operator

* OceanBase error code: 4686

* Cause: Data has been written to partitions of the replicated table. Subsequent read requests must be routed to leaders in the partitions of the replicated table.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4688 (HY000): standby tenant is read only

* OceanBase error code: 4688

* Cause: A standby cluster supports only reads.

* Solution: Switch the standby cluster to be the primary cluster.

## ERROR 4690 (HY000): other primary cluster already exist, can not start as primary

* OceanBase error code: 4690

* Cause: Another cluster serves as the primary cluster, and the current cluster cannot be elected as the primary cluster.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4691 (HY000): array binding needs to switch iterator

* OceanBase error code: 4691

* Cause: The iterator has stopped.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4692 (HY000): standby cluster not empty

* OceanBase error code: 4692

* Cause: The current standby cluster is not empty and cannot be added.

* Solution: Clear the standby cluster, bootstrap it again, and then add it.

## ERROR 4693 (HY000): not primary cluster

* OceanBase error code: 4693

* Cause: The current cluster is not the primary cluster.

* Solution: Confirm the role of the current cluster.

## ERROR 4694 (HY000): check drop column failed

* OceanBase error code: 4694

* Cause: The `drop column` operation failed because partitions were under a major compaction.

* Solution: Wait until the major compaction of all partitions is completed. If the error persists, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<!-- The troubleshooting knowledge base entry:

[Column deletion failure (error code 4694)](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-20000000117?back=kb) -->

## ERROR 4695 (HY000): not standby cluster

* OceanBase error code: 4695

* Cause: The specified cluster is not a standby cluster and cannot be added.

* Solution: Check the role of the cluster. You can add only standby clusters to the primary cluster.

## ERROR 4696 (HY000): cluster version not compatible

* OceanBase error code: 4696

* Cause: The standby cluster is of a version different from that of the primary cluster and cannot be added.

* Solution: In the primary/standby cluster deployment mode, make sure that the versions of the primary and standby clusters are the same.

## ERROR 4697 (HY000): wait trans table merge finish timeout

* OceanBase error code: 4697

* Cause: A minor compaction of the transaction status table timed out.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4698 (HY000): skip renew location by rpc

* OceanBase error code: 4698

* Cause: The location cache failed to be refreshed by using internal RPCs.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4699 (HY000): renew location by rpc failed

* OceanBase error code: 4699

* Cause: The location cache failed to be refreshed by using internal RPCs.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 4700 (HY000): cluster id does not match

* OceanBase error code: 4700

* Cause: The value of the `cluster id` parameter is inconsistent with the ID of the current cluster.

* Solution: Query the ID of the current cluster and modify the `cluster id` parameter.

## ERROR 4701 (HY000): parameter cannot be modified because specified value is invalid

* OceanBase error code: 4701

* Cause: The specified parameter value is invalid.

* Solution: Modify the specified parameter value and run the command again.

## ERROR 4702 (HY000): %s %.\*s already exists

* OceanBase error code: 4702

* Cause: A resource object with the specified name already exists.

* Solution: Specify another name for the resource object to be created.

## ERROR 4703 (HY000): resource plan %.\*s does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4703

* Cause: The specified resource plan does not exist.

* Solution: Specify a valid resource plan name and run the command again.

## ERROR 4704 (HY000): value %ld for %s is outside valid range of 0 to 100

* OceanBase error code: 4704

* Cause: The specified resource usage is invalid. The value must be within the range of `[0,100]`.

* Solution: Specify a valid value.

## ERROR 4705 (HY000): plan directive %.\*s, %.\*s does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4705

* Cause: The specified plan directive does not exist.

* Solution: Specify a valid plan directive name.

## ERROR 4706 (HY000): plan directive %.\*s, %.\*s already exists

* OceanBase error code: 4706

* Cause: A plan directive with the specified name already exists.

* Solution: Specify another name for the plan directive to be created.

## ERROR 4707 (HY000): plan directive name '%.\*s' not supported

* OceanBase error code: 4707

* Cause: The plan directive specified for creating a user resource group mapping does not exist.

* Solution: Specify a valid plan directive name.

## ERROR 4708 (HY000): Failover is not allowed

* OceanBase error code: 4708

* Cause: Failovers are not allowed.

* Solution: Identify the cause of the failover failure based on the error message.

## ERROR 4709 (HY000): Add cluster not allowed. Actions: %s

* OceanBase error code: 4709

* Cause: The standby cluster cannot be added. The information that follows `Actions` describes the cause and solution.

* Solution: Resolve the problem based on the information that follows `Actions` and perform a failover.

## ERROR 4710 (HY000): consumer group %.\*s does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4710

* Cause: The specified user resource group does not exist.

* Solution: Specify a valid user resource group name.

## ERROR 4711 (HY000): cluster is not accessible, cluster_id: %ld

* OceanBase error code: 4711

* Cause: The specified cluster is inaccessible.

* Solution: Check whether the value of `cluster_id` is correct. If the value of `cluster_id` is correct, check whether the cluster is accessible and whether the RootService is normal.

## ERROR 4712 (HY000): rebuild global index:'%.\*s' failed when drop/truncate partitions

* OceanBase error code: 4712

* Cause: The partition is dropped or truncated, but the corresponding index rebuild task fails.

* Solution:

   1. Identify the related invalid indexes.

   2. Delete the invalid indexes.

   3. Rebuild indexes.

## ERROR 4713 (HY000): unique/primary keys in table referenced by enabled foreign keys

* OceanBase error code: 4713

* Cause: The operation conflicts with a foreign key.

* Solution: Disassociate from the foreign key and perform the operation again.

## ERROR 4719 (HY000): log stream does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4719

* Cause: No corresponding log stream exists on the current OBServer node.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>Since OceanBase Database V4.0.0, the error message is changed from <code>ERROR 4719 (HY000): partition has been dropped</code> to <code>ERROR 4719 (HY000): log stream does not exist</code>. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4720 (HY000): too many log streams were defined for this tenant

* OceanBase error code: 4720

* Cause: A tenant on a single OBServer node supports a maximum of 100 log streams. If the limit is exceeded, this error is reported.

* Solution: Reduce the number of log streams of a tenant on a single OBServer node.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4721 (HY000): log stream location does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4721

* Cause: The location information of the corresponding log stream was not found in the internal tables.

* Solution: The system will automatically retry. If this error still occurs after a retry, you must check whether the corresponding log stream exists and is reported.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4722 (HY000): log stream location leader does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4722

* Cause: The leader information was not found in the location information. This may be caused by the absence of the leader in the log stream.

* Solution: Check whether the leader of the corresponding log stream is available.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4723 (HY000): mapping between tablet and log stream does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4723

* Cause: The corresponding log stream information of the tablet was not found in the internal tables.

* Solution: The system will automatically retry. If this error still occurs after a retry, you must check whether the corresponding tablet exists and is reported.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4724 (HY000): unexpected tablet existence

* OceanBase error code: 4724

* Cause: An internal error occurred. An unexpected tablet exists. You are creating a duplicate tablet.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4725 (HY000): tablet does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4725

* Cause: An internal error occurred. The tablet does not exist.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4727 (HY000): ls need revoke

* OceanBase error code: 4727

* Cause: During an automatic switchover, the submodule that is registered to detect the switchover fails and cannot be rolled back to the original state.

* Solution: The kernel automatically executes the forced revocation logic.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4732 (HY000): check cluster status", "%s

* OceanBase error code: 4732

* Cause: The cluster status is incorrect.

* Solution: Query the `__all_cluster_info` table to check the `cluster_role` and `switchover_status` fields of the cluster for exceptions.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4733 (HY000): zone '%s' resource not enough to hold %ld new unit. You can check resource info by views: DBA_OB_UNITS, GV\$OB_UNITS, GV$OB_SERVERS.\n%s

* OceanBase error code: 4733

* Cause: The remaining resources of the zone are insufficient to create all units. This error code may be returned when you perform the following operations:

   * Create a resource pool.
   * Modify the number of units in the resource pool.
   * Modify the unit specifications.

* Solution: View the allocated resources and modify the resource allocation as needed.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4734 (HY000): zone '%s' server not enough to hold %ld new unit, please check zone valid servers

* OceanBase error code: 4734

* Cause: The zone does not have enough effective OBServer nodes for creating all units. This error code may be returned when you perform the following operations:

   * Create a resource pool.
   * Modify the number of units in the resource pool.
   * Modify the unit specifications.

* Solution: Check the number of effective OBServer nodes and adjust the required resources.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4735 (HY000): sstable not exist

* OceanBase error code: 4735

* Cause: The source SSTables to be merged cannot be found during the migration.

* Solution: Generally, you can retry later. If the error persists, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4736 (HY000): resource unit value is invalid

* OceanBase error code: 4736

* Cause: The values of the unit specification are invalid.

* Solution: Change the values of the unit specification to valid ones.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4737 (HY000): log stream already exist

* OceanBase error code: 4737

* Cause: The log stream that is being migrated already exists at the destination.

* Solution: Generally, troubleshooting is not required. The system will wait for the garbage collection (GC) operation on the local log stream at the destination and retries. If this error persists, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4740 (HY000): log stream replica task result is uncertain

* OceanBase error code: 4740

* Cause: The disaster recovery task detection mechanism found an invalid log stream replica task, and the task execution result is uncertain.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4741 (HY000): log stream wait log replay timeout

* OceanBase error code: 4741

* Cause: During the migration of the log stream to the destination, the wait for clog replay timed out.

* Solution: Generally, troubleshooting is not required. The system will retry the migration. If this error persists, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4742 (HY000): log stream wait tablet ready timeout

* OceanBase error code: 4742

* Cause: During the migration of the log stream, the wait for all tablets at the destination to become normal timed out.

* Solution: Generally, troubleshooting is not required. The system will retry the migration. If this error persists, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4743 (HY000): freeze service epoch is not expected

* OceanBase error code: 4743

* Cause: The epoch inconsistency of the major compaction service occurred due to the log stream switchover.

* Solution: This is an internal error code of the major compaction feature. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4744 (HY000): already exist larger frozen_scn in __all_freeze_info", "%s

* OceanBase error code: 4744

* Cause: A major freeze was initiated before the ongoing major compaction was completed.

* Solution: Initiate a major freeze only after the previous major compaction is completed.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4745 (HY000): delete server not allowed

* OceanBase error code: 4745

* Cause: No other servers in the same zone could host the data on the deleted server. Two possible scenarios:

   1. No idle servers are available in the same zone.
   2. The resources on the idle server are insufficient to host the unit of the deleted server.

* Solution: Add an idle server with sufficient resources or scale up the idle server in the same zone.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4746 (HY000): Network error and packet status unknown. Abort auto retry

* OceanBase error code: 4746
* Cause: During the execution of a distributed plan, the scheduling failed due to an unstable network connection or node failure.
* Solution: Re-execute the SQL statement.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4747 (HY000): arbitration service does not exist, %s

* OceanBase error code: 4747

* Cause: The arbitration service endpoint is not configured for the cluster.

* Solution: OceanBase clusters do not support arbitration if the arbitration service endpoint is not configured. Set the arbitration service endpoint for the cluster by using OCP or the SQL command `alter system add arbitration service'$svr_ip:$svr_port';`.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4748 (HY000): arbitration service already exist, %s

* OceanBase error code: 4748

* Cause: The cluster already has a valid arbitration service endpoint.

* Solution: Configure only one arbitration service endpoint for the cluster.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4751 (HY000): wait degration finished timeout

* OceanBase error code: 4751

* Cause: Waiting for tenant degradation timed out during a Stop Server operation.

* Solution: Execute the Stop Server command again until it succeeds.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4752(HY000): rootservice start process has failure

* OceanBase error code: 4752
* Cause: The RootService startup process failed.
* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4753(HY000): rootservice stop process has failure

* OceanBase error code: 4753
* Cause: The RootService stopping process failed.
* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4754(HY000): root inspection is not passed

* OceanBase error code: 4754
* Cause: The RootService failed the inspection.
* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4755(HY000): rootservice background thread may be hung

* OceanBase error code: 4755
* Cause: The RootService background thread may be suspended.
* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4756(HY000): Migration src and dest version is not compatible

* OceanBase error code: 4756
* Cause: The source and destination versions are not compatible with each other.
* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required. The migration and replication kernel will retry the migration.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4757 (HY000): Cluster info may remain on arbitration server '%.*s', please make sure whether to use ob_admin to clean it.

* OceanBase error code: 4757
* Cause: When you replace or delete the cluster arbitration service, the cluster information is detected on the arbitration server.
* Solution: Use the ob_admin tool to clear the cluster information. Confirm whether you need to clear the cluster information before you use the ob_admin tool.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4758 (HY000): the arbitration service may be unavailable, please check and retry

* OceanBase error code: 4758
* Cause: The arbitration service may be unavailable.
* Solution: Check the arbitration service status or the network connection and retry.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4759 (HY000): An error was ignored when accessing virtual table, actual error code: %d

* OceanBase error code: 4759
* Cause: An error occurred and the error code, for example, 1305, was returned during the access to the virtual table, but the error was ignored.
* Solution: Check the error log of the error code 1305 to find the information about the virtual table access error, and fix the error based on the information.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4760 (HY000): log stream is offline

* OceanBase error code: 4760
* Cause: The log stream of the local server was being stopped and could not be read.
* Solution: Re-execute the SQL statement.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4762(HY000): This operation has been finished without checking ls status

* OceanBase error code: 4762
* Cause: The tenant-level parameter `enable_rebalance` is disabled. As a result, log streams are not balanced. Some operations require checking whether the log streams are balanced. If the check is skipped, the operations directly end.
* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4763(HY000): invalid user.table.column, table.column, or column specification

* OceanBase error code: 4763
* Cause: The username, table name, or column name specified in the SQL statement is incorrect or invalid.
* Solution: Make sure that the user name, table name, and column name specified in the SQL statement are free of spelling or syntax errors.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4764(HY000): unknown SET option \'%s\'

* OceanBase error code: 4764
* Cause: An unknown option is specified in the `SET` command.
* Solution: Make sure that the options specified in the SET command are free of spelling or syntax errors.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4765 (HY000): create standby tenant may fail, %s

* OceanBase error code: 4765
* Cause: An unknown exception occurred.
* Solution: Query the `V$OB_LS_LOG_RESTORE_STATUS` table to check the recovery status of the system log stream.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4766 (HY000): ls waiting safe destory, %s

* OceanBase error code: 4766
* Cause: The message indicates that the log stream is waiting to be safely destroyed.
* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4767 (HY000): log stream is not leader log stream

* OceanBase error code: 4767

* Cause: The log stream is not the leader of the Paxos group.

* Solution: The background thread will try to run on the leader after identifying this error.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.1. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4768 (HY000): ls lock conflict, %s

* OceanBase error code: 4768

* Cause: Log streams contend for the lock.

* Solution: Resolve the contention, or wait for the lock to be released.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.1. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 4769 (HY000): invalid root key", "%s

* OceanBase error code: 4769

* Cause: The root key is invalid.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.1. </p>
</main>
