|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

8000 - 8999
=================================

These error codes indicate fatal errors. If a client receives an 8xxx error, the client must close the current SQL connection.

ERROR 8001 (08004): Server is initializing
----------------------------------------------------------------

* OceanBase error code: 8001

* Cause: The OBServer node receives an RPC request during startup.

* Solution: Wait until the OBServer node is restarted.

ERROR 8002 (08004): Server is stopping
------------------------------------------------------------

* OceanBase error code: 8002

* Cause: The OBServer node receives an RPC request during exit.

* Solution: Wait until the OBServer node exits. Alternatively, run the `kill -9` command to forcibly terminate the observer process.

ERROR 8003 (08004): Packet checksum error
---------------------------------------------------------------

* OceanBase error code: 8003

* Cause: The OBServer node receives the message of `checksum` verification failure of the RPC packet. This is usually caused by version incompatibility.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 8004 (08004): Packet cluster_id not match
---------------------------------------------------------------------

* OceanBase error code: 8004

* Cause: The OBServer node receives an RPC packet with an unexpected `cluster_id`. This is usually because an OBServer node in another OceanBase cluster is connected to the current cluster.

* Solution: If the OBServer node of another cluster is incorrectly connected to the current cluster, the deployment is incorrect. In this case, stop the incorrectly deployed cluster as soon as possible. In other cases, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 8005(08005): Tenant id not match

* OceanBase error code: 8005
* Cause: The tenant is renamed when the SQL statement is executed over an OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) connection.
* Solution: We recommend that you disconnect the tenant from ODP before you rename the tenant and reconnect it to ODP after renaming.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>
