| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

9000 to 9499
=================================

These error codes indicate backup, restore, and STORAGE 3.0 errors.

ERROR 9001 (HY000): URI error
---------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9001

* Cause: The destination URL specified for backup and restore is invalid.

* Solution: Check and modify the backup and restore configurations.

ERROR 9002 (HY000): OSS file MD5 error
------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9002

* Cause: Data verification of Object Storage Service (OSS) objects failed due to a data error in OSS.

* Solution: Contact OSS Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9003 (HY000): OSS error
---------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9003

* Cause: An unknown OSS error occurred.

* Solution: Contact OSS Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<!-- Cases:

* [Failed to set a backup path. Error message: OSS error](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000208059)
* [Failed to restore a tenant by using backup files, and the tenant remained in the restore state](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000340640) -->

ERROR 9004 (HY000): Init MD5 fail
-------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9004

* Cause: OpenSSL encountered an error when initializing MD5.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9005 (HY000): Out of element
--------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9005

* Cause: The number of shards exceeds the upper limit.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9006 (HY000): Update MD5 fail
---------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9006

* Cause: The MD5 update failed.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9007 (HY000): Invalid OSS file length
-----------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9007

* Cause: The length of the OSS object is not supported because the OSS object is invalid.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9010 (HY000): OSS file MD5 not match
----------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9010

* Cause: An OSS object checksum mismatch occurred due to an OSS data error or a backup and restore program bug.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9011 (HY000): cannot find backup file
-----------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9011

* Cause: The backup file is not found because the specified backup and restore configurations are invalid.

* Solution: Check and modify the backup and restore configurations.

<!-- Cases:

* [Failed to restore an object to the specified timestamp by using remote backup files](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000208064) -->

ERROR 9012 (HY000): Can not get data version from timestamp
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9012

* Cause: No `data version` is passed by the logically recovered parameter.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9013 (HY000): Write OSS file error
--------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9013

* Cause: The system encountered an error when writing data to the OSS object due to an unknown failure of OSS.

* Solution: Contact OSS Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9014 (HY000): Another restore is in progress
------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9014

* Cause: A tenant with the same name as that of the tenant to be restored exists.

* Solution: Check whether the name of the tenant to be restored is already used. If yes, specify another name.

ERROR 9016 (HY000): ob cluster name not equal
-------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9016

* Cause: The cluster name and URL for the logical backup are inconsistent.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9017 (HY000): rs list invalid
---------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9017

* Cause: The specified RootServer list is invalid.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9018 (HY000): agent has failed task
---------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9018

* Cause: A logical backup task failed.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9019 (HY000): restore partition is complete

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9019

* Cause: A restore task is scheduled for a partition that has been restored.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9020 (HY000): restore partition twice
------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9020

* Cause: A restore task is scheduled for a partition that has been restored.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9022 (HY000): physical backup switch is on
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9022

* Cause: Table deletion is delayed during physical backup.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required. The table will be automatically deleted after a physical backup task is completed.

ERROR 9023 (HY000): cannot start log archive backup
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9023

* Cause: The log archiving task cannot be initiated when another log archiving task is in progress.

* Solution: Do not repeatedly schedule the command that initiates the log archiving.

ERROR 9024 (HY000): log archive backup is already disabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9024

* Cause: A log archiving task in the Stopped state cannot be stopped again.

* Solution: Do not attempt to stop a log archiving task in the Stopped state.

ERROR 9025 (HY000): log archive backup info not exists
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9025

* Cause: The log archiving file does not exist.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9026 (HY000): %s is not a valid uri

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9026

* Cause: The specified backup destination is invalid.

* Solution: Check the `backup_dest` parameter and make sure that the path specified for `backup_dest` is valid.

<!-- Cases:

* [Failed to set a backup path. Error message: backup destination is not valid](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000208058) -->

ERROR 9027 (HY000): ob log archive interrupted
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9027

* Cause: Log archiving is interrupted.

* Solution: Check whether a large number of logs are being written. If not, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9028 (HY000): ob log archive stat not match
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9028

* Cause: The log archiving status is invalid.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9029 (HY000): log archive is not running
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9029

* Cause: Log archiving is not running. Generally, this error is reported on the OBServer node when you stop backup.

* Solution: This code does not indicate an error. No manual intervention is required.

ERROR 9030 (HY000): log archive invalid round
-------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9030

* Cause: The round information of the log archiving task is invalid.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9031 (HY000): Cannot backup ob replica
------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9031

* Cause: The replica is being migrated or replicated or is a log-only replica, and therefore cannot be used for data backup.

* Solution: OceanBase Database will automatically retry the operation, and no manual intervention is required.

ERROR 9032 (HY000): backup info not exists
----------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9032

* Cause: The backup information does not exist.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<!-- Cases:

* [The backup process remains in the running state and error code 9032 is printed in logs](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000208050) -->

ERROR 9033 (HY000): Backup meta info stored in system dictionary does not match with current system status
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9033

* Cause: A backup status inconsistency error occurred.

* Solution:

   * If this error is returned for OBServer node log archiving, it usually occurs when log archiving is started or stopped. In this case, no manual intervention is required.

   * If this error is returned for RootService log archiving, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9035 (HY000): restore index failed
--------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9035

* Cause: The index rebuild operation failed after the restore was completed.

* Solution: Find the table index in the `error` state under the restored tenant and rebuild the index.

ERROR 9036 (HY000): Backup is in progress
---------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9036

* Cause: An operation mutually exclusive with backup was performed.

* Solution: Stop data backup and log archiving and perform the operation again.

ERROR 9037 (HY000): log archive status is not valid
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9037

* Cause: The log archiving status is invalid.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9038 (HY000): Cannot add replica during set member list in restore
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9038

* Cause: Replication is not supported in the `set member list` phase.

* Solution: Replicas cannot be replicated in the `set member list` phase during restore. If the majority of replicas exist, the restore task can continue. If the majority of replicas no longer exist, cancel the current restore task and schedule a new restore task.

ERROR 9039 (HY000): pg log archive leader changed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9039

* Cause: The leader for log archiving has been switched.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. A leader switchover interrupts the log archiving process of the current partition group. The new leader will automatically proceed with the backup without the need for manual intervention.

ERROR 9040 (HY000): backup can not start
--------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9040

* Cause: The log archiving task is not in the `DOING` state, and data backup cannot be initiated.

* Solution: Wait until the log archiving task enters the `DOING` state. If the log archiving task remains in the `BEGINNING` state, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9041 (HY000): cancel backup do not allow
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9041

* Cause: The backup task cannot be repeatedly canceled.

* Solution: Do not repeatedly cancel a task that is being canceled.

ERROR 9042 (HY000): backup data version gap over limit
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9042

* Cause: Data backup is not completed within 16 rounds of `major compactions`.

* Solution: Analyze the cause of slow data backup or check whether `major compactions` are performed too frequently.

ERROR 9044 (HY000): delete backup data is in progress
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9044

* Cause: The backup cleanup task cannot be repeatedly scheduled.

* Solution: Do not repeatedly schedule the backup cleanup task.

ERROR 9045 (HY000): delete backup set do not allow
------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9045

* Cause: The backup set cannot be deleted.

* Solution: Do not enter the command to delete the backup set.

ERROR 9046 (HY000): backup set id is not valid
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9046

* Cause: The specified backup set ID is invalid.

* Solution: Specify a valid `backup_set_id` value and try again.

ERROR 9047 (HY000): invalid password for backup
---------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9047

* Cause: The entered password is invalid.

* Solution: Enter the valid password and try again.

ERROR 9048 (HY000): backup set is isolated by two log archive round
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9048

* Cause: Data backup and log archiving are discontinuous.

* Solution: Check whether log archiving is interrupted.

ERROR 9049 (HY000): backup status is stopped, can not cancel
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9049

* Cause: The backup task has been stopped and cannot be canceled again.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9050 (HY000): no backup data to be backuped up
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9050

* Cause: No data needs to be backed up by the scheduled backup task.

* Solution: This error usually occurs during backup. Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9051 (HY000): backup mount file is not valid
------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9051

* Cause: The network file system (NFS) is not mounted to some OBServer nodes.

* Solution: Make sure that the NFS is mounted to all OBServer nodes.

ERROR 9052 (HY000): backup clean info not match
---------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9052

* Cause: The backup cleanup task encountered a metadata inconsistency error.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9053 (HY000): cancel delete backup do not allow
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9053

* Cause: The `cancel` operation is initiated when no cleanup task is available.

* Solution: Do not initiate the `cancel` operation when no cleanup task is available.

ERROR 9054 (HY000): backup clean info not exists
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9054

* Cause: The metadata of the backup cleanup task does not exist.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9057 (HY000): can not set backup region, because %s
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9057

* Cause: The backup region cannot be modified.

* Solution: Record the error message and contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9058 (HY000): can not set backup zone, because %s
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9058

* Cause: The backup zone cannot be modified.

* Solution: Record the error message and contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9059 (HY000): backup backup has reached max backup times
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9059

* Cause: An internal error occurred. This code is returned if all the existing backup sets or backup pieces have reached the threshold of backup times during secondary backup scheduling.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9060 (HY000): COS error
---------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9060

* Cause: The module to adapt to Cloud Object Storage (COS) of Tencent Cloud encountered an error.

* Solution: This code is returned if a logic error occurs in the adaptation between OceanBase Database and COS. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9061 (HY000): IO limit
--------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9061

* Cause: Throttling is triggered on I/O operations. Currently, this code is returned only for the List operation of COS.

* Solution: Contact COS Technical Support to increase or remove the throttling threshold for the List operation.

ERROR 9062 (HY000): reach backup backup copy limit
------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9062

* Cause: When the system schedules secondary backup tasks based on the specified backup times, all backup sets and backup pieces have reached the threshold of backup times, and no backup set or backup piece requires secondary backup.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9063 (HY000): backup io is prohibited
-----------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9063

* Cause: Throttling is triggered on the List operation performed during backup and restore in the COS-based environment.

* Solution:

   * If this error occurs occasionally, troubleshooting is not required.

   * If this error occurs frequently, contact COS Technical Support to increase or remove the throttling threshold for the List operation.

ERROR 9064 (HY000): the archive log and backup data are not continuous
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9064

* Cause: The archived log data and original backup data are discontinuous.

* Solution:

   * For OceanBase Database V2.2.X, initiate a new major compaction and then a new data backup task.

   * For OceanBase Database V3.1.X and later versions, initiate a new data backup task.

ERROR 9065 (HY000): agent has suspended
-------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9065

* Cause: This error code is returned when the backup process is suspended during a logical backup and restore task.

* Solution: This error does not affect the system functionality. You can restart the logical backup later.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9066 (HY000): %.*s is conflict with %.*s

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9066

* Cause: The value conflicts with another value.

* Solution: Check the value and make sure that it does not conflict with other values.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.1. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9069 (HY000): deleting backup piece is not allowed
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9069

* Cause: The backup piece cannot be deleted.

* Solution: Do not enter the command to delete the backup set.

ERROR 9070 (HY000): can not connect to backup destination
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9070

* Cause: The OBServer node is not connected to the backup media. For example, the NFS is not mounted, or OSS does not have the access privilege.

* Solution: Correctly mount the NFS, specify the correct authorization information for OSS, or grant the necessary operation privileges.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9071 (HY000): no I/O operation permission at the backup destination
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9071

* Cause: The OBServer node does not have privileges to perform operations on the backup media.

* Solution: Grant privileges for operations that were unauthorized.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9072 (HY000): obesi process session conflicts
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9072

* Cause: The sessions of the independent backup I/O subprocesses conflict.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9073 (HY000): external storage OBS error
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9073

* Cause: An error occurred in the storage media when the backup media is Object Storage Service (OBS) of HUAWEI CLOUD.

* Solution: Check whether the connection and data writes to the HUAWEI CLOUD OBS are normal.

ERROR 9074 (HY000): backup validation task skipped
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9074

* Cause: The backup verification of the deleted tenant is skipped.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

ERROR 9075 (HY000): obesi process io error
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9075

* Cause: The backup and restore I/O failed due to the unusual status of the obesi process.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V3.2.4. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9076 (HY000): backup meta index does not exist
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9076

* Cause: The metadata index of the backup data does not exist.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9077 (HY000): log discontinuous between two archive rounds
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9077

* Cause: The rounds of two consecutively read archived logs are not continuous.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9078 (HY000): archive log is to end
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9078

* Cause: The continuous read of the archived logs has reached the end.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9079 (HY000): archive log had been recycled
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9079

* Cause: The archived logs are already recycled when the continuous log read is performed.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9080 (HY000): the format file does not exist under the destination
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9080

* Cause: The format file does not exist in the backup destination. Possible scenarios:

   * The format file is removed from the destination before the backup task.
   * The specified destination is not empty but does not contain the format file.

* Solution: Check whether the format file exists in the backup destination. If not, the destination is invalid. When you specify a new destination directory, you must clear the directory before writing the backup to the destination.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9081 (HY000): the content of the format file at the destination does not match
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9081

* Cause: The backup destination specified in the format file does not match the actual backup destination. Possible scenarios:

   * You have specified the destination of another cluster, tenant, or backup type.
   * The format file in the backup destination is damaged.

* Solution: Make sure that the specified backup information matches the actual cluster, tenant, or backup type to be backed up.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9082 (HY000): backup device out of space
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9082

* Cause: The storage space of the backup disk is insufficient.

* Solution: Scale out the storage space for the backup.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9083 (HY000): the pwrite offset of the object storage is inconsistent
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9083

* Cause: The offset for file appending during backup and restore does not match the file size.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9084 (HY000): the contents of pwrite are inconsistent
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9084

* Cause: The appended file content during backup and restore does not match the existing file content.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9085 (HY000): backup major SSTable range not cover minor SSTable
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9085

* Cause: The backup scope of the major SSTables does not cover the minor SSTables.

* Solution: Troubleshooting is not required. The system will retry during the backup.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9086 (HY000): backup advance checkpoint by flush timeout
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9086

* Cause: The push of the log stream checkpoint timed out during the backup.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9087(HY000): observer clog is recycled before archive

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9087
* Cause: The archived files have been recycled when they are consumed.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9088 (HY000): log restore source tenant state not match, switchover to primary not allowed

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9088
* Cause: The status of the source tenant for log restoration or the log stream does not match that of the destination tenant. The current tenant cannot be switched to the primary tenant.
* Solution:
   1. Make sure that the status of the source tenant for backup and restoration matches that of the destination tenant.
   2. Make sure that the leader-follower replication settings are correct.
   3. Make sure that the backup of the source tenant is complete and the restoration of the destination tenant is correct.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9089 (HY000): log restore source LS state not match, switchover to primary not allowed

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9089
* Cause: The status of the source tenant for log restoration or the log stream does not match that of the destination tenant. The current tenant cannot be switched to the primary tenant.
* Solution:
   1. Make sure that the status of the source logs for backup and restoration matches that of the destination logs.
   2. Make sure that the leader-follower replication settings are correct.
   3. Make sure that the backup of the source logs is complete and the restoration of the destination logs is correct.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9090 (HY000): obesi process session not exist

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9090

* Cause: The obesi process session does not exist.

* Solution: The obesi process restarts automatically. No manual intervention is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9091 (HY000): Already in ARCHIVELOG mode

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9091

* Cause: The status is already ARCHIVELOG.

* Solution: This is a status prompt. No manual intervention is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9092 (HY000): Already in NOARCHIVELOG mode

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9092

* Cause: The status is already NOARCHIVELOG.

* Solution: This is a status prompt. No manual intervention is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9096 (HY000): standby binary version is lower than primary data version, standby need upgrade

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9096
* Cause: The version of the standby cluster is earlier than that of the primary cluster.
* Solution: Upgrade the version of the standby cluster to that of the primary cluster.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9097 (HY000): primary tenant has been dropped

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9097
* Cause: The primary tenant is deleted during the primary/standby cluster synchronization.
* Solution: Check the tenant information of the primary cluster and make sure that the primary tenant exists.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9098 (HY000): normal object in object_storage(oss,cos,etc.) can't be appended content

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9098
* Cause: An error occurred during the attempt to append content to a normal object in an object storage instance, such as an Alibaba Cloud OSS bucket or a COS instance.
* Solution: Make sure that the object storage instance type in use supports appending content to a normal object.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9099 (HY000): %s restore failed, %s

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9099

* Cause: The restore operation failed.

* Solution: Check that the restore configurations and parameter settings meet the requirements of the restore objectives.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9100 (HY000): no such file or directory
-------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9100

* Cause: The specified directory or file is not found in the storage layer. This may be because the configuration is invalid.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9101 (HY000): file or directory already exist
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9101

* Cause: The specified file or directory already exists.

* Solution: This is an internal error code. Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9114 (HY000): storage destination is not valid

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9114

* Cause: The object storage destination is invalid.
* Solution: Verify whether the object storage destination is correct and make sure that it is a valid destination. You may need to change the object storage destination.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9115 (HY000): can not connect to storage destination

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9115

* Cause: The object storage destination cannot be connected.
* Solution: Check the configurations for connecting to the object storage destination and make sure that the network connection is normal. You may need to modify the connection configurations or object storage access key, or fix network connection issues.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9116 (HY000): no I/O operation permission of the object storage

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9116

* Cause: You do not have the I/O operation privileges on object storage.
* Solution: Check the object storage privilege settings and make sure that you have the I/O operation privileges. You may need to adjust the object storage privilege settings or contact the administrator to request for the required privileges.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9117 (HY000): the specified s3_region does not match the endpoint

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9117

* Cause: The `s3_region` option is not specified or the specified `s3_region` value does not match the endpoint.
* Solution: Check whether the specified `s3_region` value matches the endpoint. Make sure that a correct `s3_region` value is used to match the corresponding endpoint.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9118 (HY000): object storage endpoint is invalid

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9118

* Cause: The object storage endpoint is invalid.
* Solution: Check whether the object storage endpoint is correctly configured. Make sure that the endpoint is correctly configured and can properly access the object storage service.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code is introduced since OceanBase Database V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

ERROR 9200 (HY000): Extend ssblock file to smaller is not allowed
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9200

* Cause: The size of the SSBlock file cannot be reduced.

* Solution: Make sure that the value specified by `ALTER SYSTEM SET datafile_size` is larger than the current SSBlock file size, or contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9201 (HY000): Mark blocks timeout(5s) in auto extend process when alloc block fail
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9201

* Cause: After the automatic scaling of the SSBlock file, the macroblocks cannot be labeled.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

ERROR 9202 (HY000): Auto extend param is not ready to start extending file
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* Error code in OceanBase Database: 9202

* Cause: The automatic disk scaling does not start due to possible configuration issues or because the disk usage has reached the upper limit specified by `datafile`.

* Solution: Check whether the value of the `free_size` field in the `__all_virtual_disk_stat` table is 0. If yes, the disk space is exhausted. You must increase the `datafile` threshold or disk size.