Recycle bin for databases, tables, and indexes 
===================================================================



View the recycle bin 
-----------------------------------------

The tenant administrator can run the following command to view the objects in the recycle bin. 

```sql
obclient> SHOW RECYCLEBIN;
```



Enable/Disable the recycle bin 
---------------------------------------------------

By default, the recycle bin is enabled after a tenant is created. You can perform the `Truncate` or `Drop` operation to move a database object to the recycle bin. 

You can run the following commands to enable or disable the recycle bin for tenants or sessions:

* Enable/Disable the recycle bin for tenants

  ```sql
  obclient> SET GLOBAL `recyclebin` = on /off;
  ```

  




<!-- -->

* Enable/Disable the recycle bin for sessions

  ```sql
  obclient> SET @@recyclebin = on/off
  ```

  




Restore objects from the recycle bin 
---------------------------------------------------------

The tenant administrator can run the `FLASHBACK` command to restore databases and tables from the recycle bin. The object name can be modified upon restoration, but must be different from an existing object name. 

Sample commands:

* Restore an object database

  ```sql
  obclient> FLASHBACK DATABASE object_name TO BEFORE DROP [RENAME TO database_name];
  ```

  




<!-- -->

* Restore an object table

  ```sql
  obclient> FLASHBACK TABLE object_name TO BEFORE DROP [RENAME to table_name];
  ```

  




Limits:

* When database objects are restored by using the `FLASHBACK`command, the databases, tables, and indexes are restored in sequence.

  

* In MySQL mode, indexes in a table are restored along with the table.

  

* Table indexes can be deleted by using the `PURGE` command, but cannot be restored by using the `FLASHBACK` command.

  

* If a table in a table group is moved to the recycle bin and then the table group is deleted, the table does not belong to any table group after it is restored. If the table group is not deleted, the table still belongs to the table group after it is restored.

  




Manually purge the recycle bin 
---------------------------------------------------

Frequent deletion and rebuilding of database objects generate a large amount of data in the recycle bin. You can run the `PURGE` command to clear the data. 
**Notice**



The `PURGE` command deletes an object along with its dependent objects. For example, when a database is purged, tables and indexes in the database are also deleted.

The `PURGE` command deletes the metadata of an object and its records in `__all_recyclebin`. The `PURGE` command completely deletes the information about an object from the OceanBase database, and the actual data is also recycled. 

When an upper-layer object of a current object is purged, the objects dependent on the current object in the recycle bin are also purged. 

Sample commands:

* Physically delete a specified database from the recycle bin

  ```sql
  obclient> PURGE DATABASE object_name;
  ```

  

* Physically delete a specified table from the recycle bin

  ```sql
  obclient> PURGE TABLE object_name;
  ```

  

* Physically delete a specified index from the recycle bin

  ```sql
  obclient> PURGE INDEX object_name;
  ```

  

* Empty the entire recycle bin

  ```sql
  obclient> PURGE RECYCLEBIN;
  ```

  




Automatically purge the recycle bin 
--------------------------------------------------------

OceanBase Database allows you to set `recyclebin_object_expire_time` to automatically purge expired schema objects in the recycle bin. The default value of this parameter is 0s. Notes:

* When the value is 0s, the schema objects in the recycle bin will not be automatically purged.

  

* When the value is not 0s, the schema objects that have been stored in the recycle bin for the specified period of time are automatically purged.

  




For example, you can run the following command to automatically purge schema objects that have been stored in the recycle bin for seven days:

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET recyclebin_object_expire_time = "7d";
```







