|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V3.1.2

## V3.1.2 BP9

### Version information

* Release date: July 28, 2022
* Version: V3.1.2 BP9
* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20220727191622

### Fixed issues

* Values of CPU-related parameters in the `__all_virtual_server_stat` virtual table are inaccurate. 
* In the online analytical processing (OLAP) business model, the execution efficiency of BROADCAST and NEST LOOP JOIN operators is low. 
* The `index status not match` error exists in the logs of the RootServer module. 
* If the server and client use different character sets, the error code 4013 is returned in data export due to excessive memory resource use. 
* If an SQL statement in the `SQL_AUDIT` view contains unidentifiable characters, data cannot be exported. 
* The background threads of an OBServer node use a global index but an initialization exception occurs, causing the OBServer node to crash. 
* The value of the `min_buf_size` parameter does not incorporate the value of the `row_extend_size` parameter. As a result, the `Buffer not enough` error is returned for a large number of data queries. 
* If the amount of data is large when a stored procedure is executed, `tmp_block_cache` occupies a large amount of memory space. As a result, an error indicating insufficient memory is returned. 

## V3.1.2 BP8


### Version information

* Release date: March 30, 2022

* Version: V3.1.2 BP8

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20220329234820

### Fixed issues

* The `v$sql_audit` view displays inaccurate `ELAPSED_TIME`. 

* An unexpected error is returned when duplicate data is written into a unique index column. 

* An error is returned when using different verification character sets in combination. 

* The backup data cannot be cleaned up if the `backup_copies` field of the `backup_dest_option` parameter is set to 1. 

* The execution result of the `SELECT INTO USER VARIABLE` parameter in MySQL mode is `NULL`. 

* An error is returned during the conversion of input parameters in PL statements. 

* The PL call of specified parameter names causes status exceptions of the `CFMS.FAUT_GENERATE_SENDDATE` package. 

* Some partition groups are not backed up or the system considers the schema incorrect because the schema version retrieved upon the initiation of the data backup task is inaccurate. 

* The `4013` error is returned when the SQL statement specifies different character set types for the server and the client. 


## V3.1.2 BP7


### Version information

* Release date: February 24, 2022

* Version: V3.1.2 BP7

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20220223145512

### Enhanced features

* Using an `OUTER JOIN` condition as a subquery statement is supported. 

* The `DBMS_LOB.COMPARE` function is supported in Oracle mode. The comparison of strings in the `CLOB` field is supported. 

* The `auto_refresh_location_cache` parameter is enabled by default to support the dynamic refresh of replica locations. 

### Fixed issues

* The query results of SQL queries that have variables with assigned values are incorrect in MySQL mode. 

* Nonoptimal execution plans are selected for paging queries. 

* An error is returned during the debugging of PL statements, indicating that the database does not support debugging the current PL object. 

* The execution of PL statements is not retried when `OB_ERR_PARALLEL_DDL_CONFLICT` occurs. 

* An error is returned when batch adding or batch dropping partitioned tables by using PL statements. 

* A syntax error is returned when `LOB` data is inserted by using PL statements.

## V3.1.2 BP6

### Version information

* Release date: December 31, 2021

* Version: V3.1.2 BP6

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20211230114204

### Enhanced features

* Unbinding the primary and standby clusters is supported. 

* The `USERENV('SID')` and `USERENV('LANGUAGE')` functions are supported in Oracle mode. 

* The `__all_virtual_processlist` table is optimized to display the `retry_cnt` and `retry_ret` fields. 

* The cleanup of historical schema changes on OBServers is supported. 

* The performance of creating a global index on an empty table is optimized. 

### Fixed issues

* The `__all_virtual_memory_info` table displays incomplete information. 

* The time consumption statistics for multistmt transactions are inaccurate in the ~v$sql_audit~ view. 

* An OBServer cannot restart when the disk is fully occupied by slog files. 

* A database has duplicate constraints because the constraints on a temporary table in Oracle mode are not in the constraint namespace. 

* The uncommitted data records cannot be queried by nested queries on followers. 

* When a view is created with a prefixed index, the `SUBSTR` expression is generated in an invalid format. 

* Internal sessions in Oracle mode lack National Language Support (NLS) character variables. 


## V3.1.2 BP5


### Version information

* Release date: November 19, 2021

* Version: V3.1.2 BP5

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20211119151959

### Enhanced features

* The `DEGREES()` function is supported in MySQL mode. 

* Using `CURSOR` as an output parameter of an anonymous block is supported. 

* The check of the user `UID` when an OBServer is started is supported. OBServers can be started only by an admin user. 

### Fixed issues

* The `ALL_INDEXES` view displays incorrect values of the `INDEX_TYPE` field. 

* The execution of the `DROP COLUMN` statement fails because of the delayed drop mechanism. 

* After a table is dropped in MySQL mode, an error is returned during the revocation of user privileges, indicating that the table does not exist. 

* The `4013` error is returned if the number of arguments of the `CONCAT_WS()` function exceeds 32. 

* The synchronization of clog files fails during the upgrade from OceanBase Database V2.2.77 to V3.1.2. 

* An error is returned during the dynamic partition pruning by using the `UNION ALL` operator. 

* Duplicate values of the universally unique identifier `(UUID)` are returned. 

* When a DML statement is executed and the transaction is not committed, the `sql_no` field of the nested session is inconsistent with that of the main session. 

## V3.1.2 BP4


### Version information

* Release date: October 13, 2021.

* Version: V3.1.2 BP4

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20211013162404

### Enhanced features

* The `gv$sql_plan_monitor` view is optimized to display the information of local and remote plans. 

* The `__all_virtual_processlist` table is optimized to display the timeout status of transactions. 

* The `OBCI_WRITE` function of the DBMS_LOB package is supported. 

* Using the `NOT IN` operator to extract the query range is supported. 

### Fixed issues

* The `4007` error is returned during the execution of the `CONNECTION BY` statement in a subquery. 

* An error is returned for JDBC recognition because the transaction isolation levels of OceanBase Database's MySQL mode are not the same as those of a MySQL database. 

* Slog overwriting causes a restart failure and the failure cannot be recovered. 

* After the `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement is executed on a table, the eviction of distributed plans associated with this table is slow. 

## V3.1.2 BP3


### Version information

* Release date: September 15, 2021.

* Version: V3.1.2 BP3

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20210914104736

### Enhanced features

* The automatic eviction of SQL execution plans for partitioned tables is supported. 

* The integration of the transparent data encryption (`TDE`) feature with the Key Management Service (KMS) system of the customer is supported. 

* The `ANY_VALUE()` function is supported in MySQL mode. 

* Strong consistency reads of follower replicas are supported. 

* The configuration of the `RootServer` node for liboblog is supported. 

* `4 KB` aligned reads and writes are supported for slog and clog files. 

### Fixed issues

* The `5727` error for OBServer logs and the log volume. 

* An error is returned during the SQL execution because the `ROWNUM()` function in the `CONNECTION BY` clause prints an incorrect alias. 

* Some content of a clog is garbled in PL. 

* The setting of the `NLS_DATE_FORMAT` parameter does not take effect. 

* The `gv$sql_audit` view displays incorrect values of the `sql_id` field. 


## V3.1.2 BP2


### Version information

* Release date: August 13, 2021

* Version: V3.1.2 BP2

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20210813154332

### Enhanced features

* The upgrade from OceanBase Database V2.2.77 to V3.1.2 is optimized. 

* The backup and restore stability and the cross-version backup and restore feature are improved. 

### Fixed issues

* An internal error is returned when table fields are passed into a TABLE function when binding the TABLE function. 

* After a table is created by executing the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement, an error is returned during the execution of subsequent SQL statements because the created table cannot be found due to delayed schema refreshing. 

* When the `DECODE()` function is used, the return result is inconsistent with that in an Oracle database. 


## V3.1.2 BP1


### Version information

* Release date: July 1, 2021.

* Version: V3.1.2 BP1

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20210701144352

### Fixed issues

* An error is returned when the `checker` script is executed during the upgrade of the standby database. 

* An error is returned during the type derivation of an expression that contains `NULL`. 


## V3.1.2


### Version information

* Release date: June 18, 2021

* Version: V3.1.2

* RPM version: oceanbase-3.1.2-20210618150922

### Overview

OceanBase Database V3.1.X is a series of stable versions released to support customer applications. 

### Enhanced features

* The upgrade from OceanBase Database V2.2.77 to V3.1.2 is supported. 

### Fixed issues

* The `dba_tab_columns` view displays incorrect values of the `Nullable` column. 