| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Index operations

This topic describes how to perform simple index operations in the MySQL mode of OceanBase Database, including creating an index, querying indexes, adding an index, dropping an index, and renaming an index.

## Create an index

The syntaxes for creating an index are as follows:

* CREATE INDEX

   ```sql
   CREATE [SPATIAL | UNIQUE] INDEX [IF NOT EXISTS] index_name
       [USING BTREE] ON table_name (sort_column_key [, sort_column_key... ])
       [index_option...] [partition_option];
   ```

   where

   * `index_name` specifies the name of the index to be created.

   * `table_name` specifies the name of the table on which the index is to be created.

   * `sort_column_key` specifies the column as the sort key. You can specify multiple columns and separate them with commas (`,`).

   * `index_option` specifies the index option. You can specify multiple index options and separate them with spaces.

   * `partition_option` specifies the index partitioning option.

   For more information about the syntax, see [CREATE INDEX](../600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2200.create-index-of-mysql-mode.md).

   When an index is being created on a table, this table still supports read and write operations. Here are two examples of creating an index:

   * Assume that table `t1` exists in the database. Create an index named `index1` on table `t1` and with the index in ascending order on column `c1`.

      ```shell
      obclient> CREATE INDEX index1 ON t1 (c1 ASC);
      ```

   * Assume that table `t2` exists in the database. Create an index named `index2` on table `t2` and with `c1 + c2` as the index expression.

      ```shell
      obclient> CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS index2 ON t2 (c1 + c2);
      ```

* CREATE TABLE

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] table_name
       (column_name column_definition,[column_name column_definition,...],
       {INDEX | KEY} [index_name] [index_type] (key_part,...)
       [index_option...]);
   ```

   where

   * `table_name` specifies the name of the table to be created.

   * `column_name` specifies the name of the index to be created.

   * `column_definition` specifies the data type of the column in the table.

   * `INDEX | KEY` specifies that either INDEX or KEY can be used as the index keyword.

   * `index_name` specifies the name of the index to be created. This parameter is optional. If you do not specify a value for this parameter, the index name is the same as the column name by default.

   * `index_type` specifies the index type. This parameter is optional.

   * `key_part` specifies to create a function-based index.

   * `index_option` specifies the index option. You can specify multiple index options and separate them with spaces.

   For more information about the syntax, see [CREATE TABLE](../600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2600.create-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

   The following sample statement creates a table named `t3` and an index named `index3` in ascending order on the `id` column:

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE TABLE t3
       (id int,
       name varchar(50),
       INDEX index3 (id ASC));
   ```

## Query indexes

You can use `SHOW INDEX` to query the indexes on a table. The following statement takes the `test` table as an example:

```shell
obclient> SHOW INDEX FROM test;
```

The query result is as follows:

```shell
+-------+------------+----------+--------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+----------+--------+------+------------+-----------+---------------+---------+------------+
| Table | Non_unique | Key_name | Seq_in_index | Column_name | Collation | Cardinality | Sub_part | Packed | Null | Index_type | Comment   | Index_comment | Visible | Expression |
+-------+------------+----------+--------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+----------+--------+------+------------+-----------+---------------+---------+------------+
| test    |          0 | PRIMARY  |            1 | id          | A         |        NULL | NULL     | NULL   |      | BTREE      | available |               | YES     | NULL       |
| test    |          1 | index1   |            1 | name        | A         |        NULL | NULL     | NULL   |      | BTREE      | available |               | YES     | NULL       |
| test    |          1 | index2   |            1 | age         | A         |        NULL | NULL     | NULL   |      | BTREE      | available |               | YES     | NULL       |
+-------+------------+----------+--------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+----------+--------+------+------------+-----------+---------------+---------+------------+
```

The fields in the query result are described as follows:

* `Non_unique`: If the index cannot include duplicate values, the value of the field is `0`. Otherwise, the value is `1`. In other words, the value `0` indicates a unique index.

* `Key_name`: the name of the index.

* `Seq_in_index`: the sequence number of the column in the composite index, such as `1` or `2`.

* `Column_name`: the name of the indexed column.

* `Collation`: the collation that indicates how columns are stored in the index.

* `Cardinality`: the estimated number of unique values in the index.

* `Sub_part`: indicates a prefixed index. If the column is partially indexed, the value is the number of indexed characters in the column. The value is `NULL` if the entire column is indexed.

* `Packed`: the compression method of keywords. If keywords are not compressed, the value is `NULL`.

* `Index_type`: the index type. At present, only the `BTREE` type is supported.

* `Comment`: indicates whether the index is available.

* `Index_comment`: the comment for the index.

* `Visible`: indicates whether the index is visible.

## Add an index

The syntax for adding an index is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name ADD {INDEX | KEY} index_name [index_type] (key_part,...) [index_option];
```

where

* `table_name` specifies the name of the table to which the index is to be added.

* `INDEX | KEY` specifies that either INDEX or KEY can be used as the index keyword.

* `index_name` specifies the name of the index to be added.

* `index_type` specifies the index type. This parameter is optional.

* `key_part` specifies to add a function-based index.

* `index_option` specifies the index option. You can specify multiple index options and separate them with spaces.

For more information about the syntax, see [ALTER TABEL](../600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/1600.alter-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

Assume that table `t1` exists in the database. The following sample statement creates an index named `index2` on the `t1` table and specifies the index in ascending order on the `c2` and `c3` columns.

```shell
obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 ADD INDEX index2 (c2,c3 ASC);
```

## Drop an index

The two syntaxes for dropping an index are as follows:

* DROP INDEX

   ```sql
   DROP INDEX index_name ON table_name;
   ```

   Here, `index_name` specifies the name of the index to be dropped, and `table_name` specifies the name of the table therefrom which the index is to be dropped. For more information about the syntax, see [DROP INDEX](../600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/3700.drop-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

* ALTER TABEL

   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE table_name DROP {INDEX | KEY} index_name;
   ```

   where

   * `table_name` specifies the name of the table from which the index is to be dropped.

   * `INDEX | KEY` specifies that either `INDEX` or `KEY` can be used as the index keyword.

   * `index_name` specifies the name of the index to be dropped.

   For more information about the syntax, see [ALTER TABEL](../600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/1600.alter-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

When you drop an index from a table, this table still supports read and write operations.

Assume that the table `t1` exists in the database and has an index named `index1`. The following sample statement drops the index:

* DROP INDEX

   ```shell
   obclient> DROP INDEX index1 ON t1;
   ```

* ALTER TABLE

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 DROP INDEX index1;
   ```

## Rename an index

The syntax for renaming an index is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name RENAME {INDEX | KEY} old_index_name TO new_index_name;
```

where

* `table_name` specifies the name of the table where the index is to be renamed.

* `INDEX | KEY` specifies that either `INDEX` or `KEY` can be used as the index keyword.

* `old_index_name` specifies the original name of the index to be renamed.

* `new_index_name` specifies the new name of the index.

For more information about the syntax, see [ALTER TABEL](../600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/1600.alter-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

Assume that the table `t1` exists in the database and has an index named `index2`. The following sample statement renames `index2` as `index3`:

```shell
obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 RENAME INDEX index2 TO index3;
```

## References

* [Overview](../../../../100.oceanbase-database-concepts/400.database-objects/200.database-objects-of-mysql-mode/300.index-of-oracle-mode/100.index-overview-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Create and manage indexes](../../../../300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/500.manage-indexes-of-mysql-mode/200.create-an-index-of-mysql-mode.md)