| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Syntax of PL stored programs


The syntax of a PL stored program contains three parts: the `BEGIN ... END` block, the `DECLARE` statement, and the statement label.

## BEGIN ... END block

The `BEGIN ... END` block supports compound statements and is used to write stored programs, including stored procedures, stored functions, and triggers.

The `BEGIN ... END` block can contain multiple statements that are enclosed by using the `BEGIN` and `END` keywords. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
[begin_label:] BEGIN
    [statement_list]
END [end_label]
```

In the preceding syntax, `statement_list` specifies a list of one or more statements to be executed. Each statement in the list must end with a semicolon (;). `statement_list` is optional. Therefore, the empty compound statement `BEGIN END` is valid.

`BEGIN ... END` blocks can be nested. A `BEGIN ... END` block can also be labeled. For more information, see **Statement labels**.

The default delimiter of PL stored programs is "/". You can also use the `delimiter` command to define a delimiter so that the entire definition is transferred to the server as a single statement. A delimiter can consist of a single character or multiple characters. Do not use the backslash (\\) as a delimiter because it is usually considered as an escape character. Here is an example:

```sql
DELIMITER $$

DELIMITER //
```


  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>When you use OceanBase Database for development, you must define a delimiter. If the internal definition of a PL block does not contain statements separated by semicolons (<code>;</code>), no delimiter is required. </p>
  </main>

## DECLARE statement

The `DECLARE` statement is used to define local variables, exception handlers, and cursors for a program. For more information, see [Variables in stored programs](200.storage-object-mysql/200.variables-in-stored-programs-mysql.md), [Exception handling](900.pl-exception-handling-statement-mysql/100.exception-handling-statement-mysql.md), and [Cursors](300.cursor-mysql/100.overview-of-cursors-mysql.md).

`DECLARE` can be used only in a `BEGIN ... END` block and must be used at the beginning of the block or prior to other statements.

Sequence of declarations:

* Cursor declarations must be prior to exception handler declarations.

* Variable and condition declarations must be prior to the cursor or exception handler declarations.



## Statement labels

Labels can be used in the `LOOP`, `REPEAT`, and `WHILE` statements of a `BEGIN ... END` block. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
[begin_label:] BEGIN
    [statement_list]
END [end_label]

[begin_label:] LOOP
    statement_list
END LOOP [end_label]

[begin_label:] REPEAT
    statement_list
UNTIL search_condition
END REPEAT [end_label]

[begin_label:] WHILE search_condition DO
    statement_list
END WHILE [end_label]
```

Observe the following rules for using the labels of these statements:

* `begin_label` must be followed with a colon (:).

* `begin_label` can be provided without `end_label`. If `end_label` is provided, it must be the same as `begin_label`.

* `end_label` cannot be provided without `begin_label`.

* Labels of the same nesting level must be unique.

* A label can contain a maximum of 16 characters in length.


To reference a built label, use the `ITERATE` or `LEAVE` statement. The following example uses a labeled statement to continue iteration or end the loop:

```sql
obclient> DELIMITER //

obclient> CREATE PROCEDURE doiterate()
    BEGIN
      DECLARE p1 INT DEFAULT 0;
      label1: LOOP
        SET p1 = p1 + 1;
        IF p1 < 10 THEN ITERATE label1; END IF;
        LEAVE label1;
      END LOOP label1;
    END //
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

For more information about the declaration of in-block exception handlers, see [DECLARE ... HANDLER](900.pl-exception-handling-statement-mysql/300.declare-handler-mysql.md).
