memory_limit 
=================================

`memory_limit` specifies the total memory size available. 


|          **Property**           | **Description** |
|---------------------------------|-----------------|
| Parameter type                  | Capacity unit   |
| Default value                   | 0               |
| Value range                     | \[8G, +∞)       |
| Effective upon OBServer restart | No              |



The default value of `memory_limit` is `0`. If the value is not `0`, the system ignores the setting of `memory_limit_percentage` and uses the value of `memory_limit`. Assume that a physical server has 100 GB of memory, that `memory_limit_percentage` is set to `80`, which indicates that 80% of the memory can be used, and that `memory_limit` is set to `'90G'`. The actual memory available for OceanBase Database on the physical server depends on the value of `memory_limit`, that is, 90 GB. 

Notes:

* The default unit for `memory_limit` is MB. 

  For example, `memory_limit='40G'` indicates that the maximum memory that can be used by OceanBase Database processes is 40 GB. As the default unit is MB, the setting of `memory_limit=40960` achieves the same effect as the setting of `memory_limit='40G'`.
  

* The value of `memory_limit` is unlimited. If memory_limit is set to a value greater than the total physical memory, other values calculated based on memory_limit will be excessively large.

  

* To restrict the memory size for running OceanBase Database, you can modify `memory_limit` as required. After this modification, the backend parameter reload thread dynamically enforces the setting without requiring a restart. However, you need to set `memory_limit` to a value smaller than the total memory of the system. 

  
  **Notice**

  

  The value of `memory_limit` must be greater than the actual memory used by OBServer.

  You can query the used memory (in GB) by using the following command:

  ```sql
  obclient> SELECT value/1024/1024/1024 used_gb FROM v$sysstat WHERE name LIKE '%observer memory%' AND con_id = 1 AND stat_id=140008 AND name='observer memory used size';
  ```

  




