backup_dest_option 
=======================================

`backup_dest_option` specifies parameters related to backup. 

Description 
--------------------------------



|            Property             | Description |
|---------------------------------|-------------|
| Parameter type                  | String      |
| Default value                   | Null string |
| Value range                     | N/A         |
| Effective upon OBServer restart | No          |



Example 
----------------------------

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET backup_dest_option='log_archive_checkpoint_interval=5s&recovery_window=7d&auto_delete_obsolete_backup=true&log_archive_piece_switch_interval=120s&backup_copies=2';
```



In the command:

* `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` specifies the interval for log backup. If you do not specify this parameter, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` is used. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `log_archive_checkpoint_interval`, the default value `120s` is used. For more information about `log_archive_checkpoint_interval`, see [log_archive_checkpoint_interval](../300.system-configuration-items/11200.log_archive_checkpoint_interval.md).

  

* `recovery_window` specifies the retention period of backup data. If you do not specify this parameter, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `backup_recovery_window` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `backup_recovery_window`, the default value `0` is used, indicating that backup data will never expire. For more information about `backup_recovery_window`, see [backup_recovery_window](../300.system-configuration-items/2000.backup_recovery_window.md).

  

* `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` specifies whether to automatically delete expired backup data. If you do not specify this parameter, the value of the cluster-level configuration item `auto_delete_expired_backup` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `auto_delete_expired_backup`, the default value `false` is used, indicating that expired backup data will not be automatically deleted. For more information about `auto_delete_expired_backup`, see [auto_delete_expired_backup](../300.system-configuration-items/300.auto_delete_expired_backup.md).

  

* `log_archive_piece_switch_interval` specifies whether to automatically split the content of the log file directory into multiple directories based on a specific interval. The default value is `0`, indicating that no splitting is performed. The valid value range is \[1d, 7d\].

  

* `backup_copies` specifies how many copies of backup data must be retained for backup redundancy. The default value is `1`. If you have specified `backup_backup_dest`, we recommend that you set backup_copies to `2`. The valid value range of backup_copies is \[1,8\]. 

  If you set `backup_copies` to `1`, the system deletes backup data without considering whether its secondary backup is successful. If you set `backup_copies` to `2`, the system will only automatically delete backup data in `backup_dest` after its secondary backup has been saved to `backup_backup_dest`.
  



