Compatibility with MySQL 
=============================================

This topic describes the compatibility between OceanBase Database in MySQL mode and the native MySQL Database. 

OceanBase Database in MySQL mode is compatible with most features and statements of MySQL 5.7. does not support some features considering the popularity of these features or the differences between the two databases in product architecture. This topic describes the differences of OceanBase Database in MySQL mode from the native MySQL database in the following aspects:

* Data types

  

* SQL syntax

  

* System views

  

* Character sets and collations

  

* Functions and expressions

  

* Partition support

  

* Backup and recovery

  

* Storage engines

  

* Optimizers

  

* Unsupported features

  




Data types 
-------------------------------

OceanBase Database supports the following data types:

* Numeric type

  * Integer types: `BOOL`/`BOOLEAN`, `TINYINT`, `SMALLINT`, `MEDIUMINT`, `INT`/`INTEGER`, and `BIGINT`

    
  
  * Fixed-point types: `DECIMAL` and `NUMERIC`

    
  
  * Floating-point types: `FLOAT` and `DOUBLE`

    
  
  * Bit-value type: `BIT`

    
  

  

* Date and time types: `DATETIME`, `TIMESTAMP`, `DATE`, `TIME`, and `YEAR`

  

* Character types: `CHAR`, `VARCHAR`, `BINARY`, and `VARBINARY`

  

* Large object types: `TINYBLOB`, `BLOB`, `MEDIUMBLOB`, and `LONGBLOB`

  

* Text types: `TINYTEXT`, `TEXT`, `MEDIUMTEXT`, and `LONGTEXT`

  

* Enumeration type: `ENUM`

  

* Collection type: `SET`

  




Compared with the native MySQL database, OceanBase Database does not support spatial data type and JSON data types. OceanBase Database supports other data types same as or more than the native MySQL database.

SQL syntax 
-------------------------------

**SELECT** 

* OceanBase Database supports most query features, including single- and multi-table queries, sub-queries, inner join, semi join, outer join, grouping, aggregation, and general data mining functions such as probability and linear regression.

  

* OceanBase Database supports collection operations such as `UNION`, `UNION ALL`, `MINUS`, `EXCEPT`, and `INTERSECT` on results returned by multiple `SELECT` operations.

  

* You can run the following statement to view an execution plan:

  ```sql
  EXPLAIN [explain_type] dml_statement;
  explain_type:
      BASIC 
    | OUTLINE
    | EXTENDED
    | EXTENDED_NOADDR
    | PARTITIONS 
    | FORMAT = {TRADITIONAL| JSON}
  
  dml_statement:
      SELECT statement 
    | DELETE statement
    | INSERT statement
    | REPLACE statement
    | UPDATE statement
  ```

  

* OceanBase Database does not support the `SELECT ... FOR SHARE ...` statement.

  




**INSERT** 

* OceanBase Database supports single-row and multi-row insertion and specified-partition insertion.

  

* OceanBase Database supports the `INSERT INTO ... SELECT ...` statement.

  

* OceanBase Database does not support direct insertion on sub-queries.

  




**UPDATE** 

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-column updates.

  

* OceanBase Database supports updates by using sub-queries.

  

* OceanBase Database supports set updates.

  

* OceanBase Database does not support updating values of sub-queries.

  




**DELETE** 

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-table deletion.

  

* OceanBase Database does not support directly deleting sub-queries.

  




**TRUNCATE** 

* OceanBase Database allows you to truncate a specified table.

  

* OceanBase Database does not support truncating a table that has a transaction in progress or a table that is locked.

  




System views 
---------------------------------

OceanBase Database implements most views of the information_schema and mysql databases. However, due to the differences from MySQL Database in architecture, OceanBase Database cannot implement all views of the databases or ensure consistency with MySQL Database in all view column meanings. 

For more information about system views, see **System views** in Reference Guide (MySQL mode).

Character sets and collations 
--------------------------------------------------

OceanBase Database is compatible with some character sets and collations of MySQL Database.

* Supported character sets: binary, utf8mb4, gbk, utf16, and gb18030.

  

* Supported collations: utf8mb4_general_ci, utf8mb4_bin, binary, gbk_chinese_ci, gbk_bin, utf16_general_ci, utf16_bin, utf8mb4_unicode_ci, utf16_unicode_ci, gb18030_chinese_ci, and gb18030_bin.

  




Functions 
------------------------------

OceanBase Database in MySQL mode does not support the following functions:

* Mathematical function: `DEGREES()`.

  

* Date and time functions: `ADDTIME()`, `DAY()`, and `DAYNAME()`.

  

* Character string functions: `FROM_BASE64()`, `LOAD_FILE()`, `MATCH`, `OCTET_LENGTH()`, `SOUNDEX()`, `SOUNDS LIKE`, `TO_BASE64()`, and `WEIGHT_STRING()`.

  

* Cast function: `BINARY`.

  

* XML functions: `ExtractValue()` and `UpdateXML()`.

  

* Encryption and compression functions: `COMPRESS()`, `RANDOM_BYTES()`, `SHA1(), SHA(`), `SHA2()`, `UNCOMPRESS()`, `UNCOMPRESSED_LENGTH()`, and `VALIDATE_PASSWORD_STRENGTH()`.

  

* Locking functions: `GET_LOCK()`, `IS_FREE_LOCK()`, `IS_USED_LOCK()`, `RELEASE_ALL_LOCKS()`, and `RELEASE_LOCK()`.

  

* Information functions: `BENCHMARK()` and `SCHEMA()`.

  

* Aggregate functions: `BIT_AND()`, `BIT_OR()`, and `BIT_XOR()`.

  

* Other functions: `ANY_VALUE()`, `IS_IPV4_COMPAT()`, `MASTER_POS_WAIT()`, `NAME_CONST()`, `UUID_SHORT()`, and `UUID()`.

  




OceanBase Database in MySQL mode does not support spatial analysis functions, JSON functions, and performance schema functions. The analysis (window) functions supported by OceanBase Database are a superset of MySQL databases. That is, OceanBase Database supports all analysis (window) functions supported by MySQL databases.

Partition support 
--------------------------------------

The partition support feature of OceanBase Database is different from that of the MySQL database.

* OceanBase Database supports partitioning and templated-based and non-template-based subpartitioning. MySQL Database does not support non-template-based subpartitioning.

  

* OceanBase Database supports subpartitioning by Hash, Key, Range, Range Columns, List, and List Columns. MySQL databases support only subpartitioning by Hash and Key.

  




For more information about partitioning, see [Manage partitioned tables and partitioned indexes](../6.administrator-guide/5.data-distribution-and-path-management/1.manage-partitioned-tables-and-partitioned-indexes/1.about-partitions.md) in Administrator Guide.

Backup and recovery 
----------------------------------------

OceanBase Database is compatible with some backup and restoration features of MySQL Database:



Storage engines 
------------------------------------

OceanBase Database uses a storage engine that is based on the LSM-Tree, whereas MySQL Database uses InnoDB and MyISAM engines that are based on data blocks.

Optimizers 
-------------------------------

The optimizer of OceanBase Database is different from the optimizer of MySQL Database in the following aspects:

* Commands to query execution plans

  * The output columns include only `ID`, `OPERATOR`, `NAME`, `EST.ROWS `, `COST`, and operator details.

    
  
  * OceanBase Database does not support using the `SHOW WARNINGS` statement to query other information.

    
  

  

* Statistics query

  * OceanBase Database does not support the `ANALYZE TABLE` statement for querying the histogram statistics information about column values in the data dictionary table.

    
  
  * You can query the `__all_meta_table` internal table for statistics information about tables and columns.

    
  

  

* Query rewrite and optimization features supported

  * Outer join optimization

    
  
  * Outer join simplification

    
  
  * Block Nested-Loop (BNL) and Batched Key Access (BKA) joins

    
  
  * Conditional filtering

    
  
  * Constant folding optimization

    
  
  * `IS NULL` optimization (indexes do not store `NULL` values)

    
  
  * `ORDER BY` optimization

    
  
  * `GROUP BY` optimization

    
  
  * Elimination by using `DISTINCT`

    
  
  * `LIMIT` pushdown

    
  
  * Window function optimization

    
  
  * Avoiding full table scan

    
  
  * Predicate pushdown

    
  

  

* Optimizer Hint mechanisms

  * Join-order optimizer hints

    
  
  * Table-level optimizer hints

    
  
  * Index-level optimizer hints

    
  
  * OceanBase Database supports the `INDEX HINT`, `FULL HINT`, `ORDERED HINT`, and `LEADING HINT` hints, but does not support the `USE INDEX` and `FORCE INDEX` hints.

    
  

  

* OceanBase Database is compatible with the parallel execution capabilities of MySQL Database such as parallel query, parallel replication, and parallel write. OceanBase Database also supports parallel operators such as parallel aggregate, parallel join, parallel grouping, and parallel sorting.

  

* OceanBase Database supports plan caching and precompilation, which are not supported by MySQL Database.

  




For more information about the optimizer, see [SQL Tuning Guide](../12.sql-tuning-guide/1.execution-process-of-sql-queries.md).

Unsupported features 
-----------------------------------------

* Spatial data types and JSON data types

  

* The `SELECT ... FOR SHARE ...` statement

  

* Spatial analysis functions, JSON functions, or performance schema functions

  

* Database- and table-level backup and restoration, and validity verification of backup data

  

* Using the `SHOW WARNINGS` statement for querying more information or using the `ANALYZE TABLE` statement for querying the histogram statistics information about column values in the data dictionary table

  



