# Terminate a tenant session

OceanBase Database allows you to terminate tenant sessions by using the `KILL` statement.

Syntax for the SQL statement:

```sql
KILL [CONNECTION] 'session_id';
```

Notes:

* You can execute the `KILL` statement to terminate only one session at a time.

* If you have the `PROCESS` privilege, you can view all sessions. If you have the `SUPER` privilege, you can terminate all sessions and statements one by one. Otherwise, you can view and terminate only the sessions and statements that you have initiated. An administrator can terminate all sessions and statements one by one.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>
    <p>For more information about how to view privileges in Oracle mode, see <a href="./5.manage-users-and-permissions/2.oracle-mode/4.view-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md">View user privileges </a>. If you do not have the required privileges, contact the administrator to obtain the privileges. For more information, see <a href="./5.manage-users-and-permissions/2.oracle-mode/5.modify-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md">Modify user privileges</a>. </p>
    </li>
    <li>
    <p>For more information about how to view your privileges in MySQL mode, see <a href="./5.manage-users-and-permissions/3.mysql-mode/4.view-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md">View user privileges</a>. If you do not have the required privileges, contact the administrator to obtain the privileges. For more information, see <a href="./5.manage-users-and-permissions/3.mysql-mode/5.modify-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md">Modify user privileges</a>. </p>
    </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

Sample statement for terminating a specified session:

```sql
obclient> KILL session_id;
```

or

```sql
obclient> KILL CONNECTION session_id;
```

You can execute the `SHOW PROCESSLIST`statement to obtain the value of the `session_id` field.

For more information about the `KILL` statement, see [KILL](../../../4.development-reference/1.sql-syntax/2.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/6.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/58.kill-of-mysql-mode.md) in SQL Reference (MySQL Mode), or [KILL](../../../4.development-reference/1.sql-syntax/3.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/9.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/3.dcl-of-oracle-mode/18.kill-of-oracle-mode.md) in SQL Reference (Oracle Mode).
