# Modify a tenant

This topic describes how to modify the attributes of a tenant.

## Limitations

You can modify the attributes of a tenant only from the `sys` tenant.

## Procedure

After a tenant is created, you can modify information about the tenant by using an SQL statement, including the number of replicas, zone list, primary zone, and system variables of the tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to modify tenant attributes.

   Sample statement:

   ```sql
   ALTER TENANT {tenant_name | ALL}
       [SET] [tenant_option_list] [opt_global_sys_vars_set]

   tenant_option_list:
       tenant_option [, tenant_option ...]

   tenant_option:
               COMMENT [=]'string'
               |PRIMARY_ZONE [=] zone
               |RESOURCE_POOL_LIST [=](poolname [, poolname...])
               |DEFAULT TABLEGROUP [=] {NULL | tablegroupname}
         |LOCALITY [=] 'locality description';

   opt_global_sys_vars_set:
         VARIABLES system_var_name = expr [,system_var_name = expr] ...
   ```

   Notes:

   * `ALL` indicates to modify all tenants.

   * `PRIMARY_ZONE` specifies the primary zone of the tenant.

   * `RESOURCE_POOL_LIST` specifies the list of resource pools. You can add or delete only one resource pool at a time.

      You cannot directly replace the resource pool of the tenant. Assume that the resource pool used by the tenant is `pool1`. The system returns an error if you execute the following statement to replace the resource pool with `pool2`:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER TENANT tenant1 resource_pool_list=('pool2');
      ERROR 1210 (HY000): Incorrect arguments to resource pool list
      ```

   * `DEFAULT TABLEGROUP` specifies the default table group of the tenant. If this parameter is set to `NULL`, the default table group of the database is disabled.

   * `LOCALITY` specifies the distribution of replicas across zones. For example, `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,R@z4` indicates that `z1`, `z2`, and `z3` are full-featured replicas, and `z4` is a read-only replica.

   Examples:

   * Change the primary zone of `tenant1` to `zone2`.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER TENANT tenant1 primary_zone='zone2';
      ```

   * Modify the locality of `tenant1` to increase the number of replicas.

      `F` indicates a full-featured replica, and `B_4` is the name of the zone to be created.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER TENANT tenant1 locality="F@B_1,F@B_2,F@B_3,F@B_4"
      ```

## References

For more information about the `ALTER TENANT` statement, see [ALTER TENANT](../../../4.development-reference/1.sql-syntax/1.system-tenants/5.alter-tenant.md).
