| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Character sets


Any character data that is processed by procedural language (PL) or stored in the database must be represented in byte sequences. The byte representation of a single character is called a character code, while a set of character codes is called a character set.

OceanBase Database supports the database character set and the national character set. PL also supports these character sets.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Database character set
---------------

PL uses the database character set to represent the following information:

* The stored source text of PL units.


* The character values of the `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `CLOB`, and `LONG` types.


The database character set can be single-byte or multibyte-varying-width. The former can map each supported character to a specific byte, and the latter can map each supported character to a sequence of one, two, three, or four bytes. The maximum number of bytes in a character code depends on the particular character set.

Each database character set contains the following fundamental characters:

* Latin letters: A to Z, and a to z

* Decimal digits: 0 to 9

* Punctuation marks: See the following table.

* Whitespace characters: space, tab, line break, and carriage return

PL source text that uses only fundamental characters can be compiled and stored in any databases. PL source text that contains non-fundamental characters can be stored and compiled only in databases that support those characters.

The following table lists the punctuation marks in the database character set.


| **Punctuation mark** | **Name** |
|--------|--------|
| ( | Opening parenthesis |
| ) | Closing parenthesis |
| \< | Opening angle bracket |
| \> | Closing angle bracket |
| + | Plus sign |
| - | Hyphen or minus sign |
| \* | Asterisk |
| / | Forward slash |
| = | Equal sign |
| , | Comma |
| ; | Semicolon |
| : | Colon |
| . | Period |
| ! | Exclamation point |
| ? | Question mark |
| ' | Apostrophe |
| " | Double quotation marks |
| @ | At sign |
| % | Percent sign (%) |
| # | Number sign |
| $ | Dollar sign |
| _ | Underscore (_) |
| \| | Vertical bar |



National character set
--------------

PL uses the national character set to represent the character values of the `NCHAR`, `NVARCHAR2`, and `NCLOB` types.
