| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# PL blocks


A PL program consists of three blocks: the declarative part defined by keyword `DECLARE`, the executable part defined by keyword `BEGIN`, and the exception-handling part defined by keyword `EXCEPTION`.


  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

These three parts play different roles:

* Declarative part: declares the variables, types, cursors, and partial stored procedure and functions used in the PL program.



* Executable part: displays the execution procedure and SQL statements, which form the main part of the PL program.



* Exception-handling part: displays exception handling information.






A PL block has the following syntax:

```sql
<< label >> -- Label (optional)
DECLARE  
    /* Declarative part: declares the variables, types, cursors, and partial stored procedures and functions used in the PL program. */
BEGIN
    /* Executable part: consists of procedures and SQL statements. It is the main part of the program. */
EXCEPTION
   /* Exception-handling part: handles exceptions. */
END;
```


  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The executable part is required in the PL program. </p>
  </main>

PL blocks can be categorized into the following three types:

* Anonymous blocks: Dynamic structures that can be executed only once.



* Programs: The stored procedures, functions, and packages stored in a database. After a program is created on a database, the program can be called by other programs.



* Triggers: When an operation is performed on the database, some events will be triggered to enable corresponding programs to run automatically.






Example: A simple anonymous block that prints "Hello World" onto a screen.

```sql
obclient> DECLARE  
        V_Str varchar(20) := 'World';
    BEGIN
        DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('Hello '||V_Str);
    END;
    /
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)

Hello World
```


The default delimiter of PL blocks is "/". You can also use the `delimiter` command to define a delimiter so that the entire definition is transferred to the server as a single statement. A delimiter can consist of a single character or multiple characters. Do not use the backslash ("\\") as a delimiter because it is usually considered as an escape character. Here is an example:

```sql
DELIMITER $$
DELIMITER //
```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>By default, a PL statement ends with "/". You can define a custom end delimiter.</p>
    <ul>
    <li>When you develop a database on the OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) GUI, you need to define a delimiter and use the <code>DELIMITER</code> statement to restore the delimiter to a semicolon (<code>;</code>) before you call PL programs. </li>
    <li>If the internal definition of a PL block does not contain statements separated by semicolons (<code>;</code>), no delimiter is required. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>


