# Case expressions

A case expression allows you to use IF ... THEN ... ELSE in an SQL statement without calling stored procedures.

## Syntax

```sql
CASE { simple_case_expression
| searched_case_expression
}
[ ELSE else_expr ]
END
```

### Simple case expressions

```sql
expr
{ WHEN comparison_expr THEN return_expr }...
```

### Searched case expressions

```sql
{ WHEN condition THEN return_expr }...
```

## Considerations

### Validation of conditions

In a simple case expression, OceanBase Database searches for the first equivalent `comparison_expr` in `WHEN ... THEN`, using `expr` as the benchmark, and returns the corresponding `return_expr`. If `WHEN ... THEN` does not satisfy the condition, and the `ELSE` clause is specified, OceanBase Database returns `else_expr`. Otherwise, OceanBase Database returns NULL.

In a searched case expression, OceanBase Database searches data from left to right until `condition` is valid, and then returns `return_expr`. If none of the conditions are valid, and the `ELSE` clause is specified, the database returns `else_expr`. Otherwise, OceanBase Database returns NULL.

### Calculation of conditions

OceanBase Database uses the short-circuit evaluation. For a simple case expression, the database calculates one`comparison_expr` value for each comparison with `expr`, rather than calculating all `comparison_expr` values in one time. Therefore, if one `comparison_expr` value equals `expr`, OceanBase Database does not calculate subsequent `comparison_expr` values. For a searched case expression, the database sequentially validates each `condition`. If one `condition` is true, OceanBase Database will not validate a subsequent `condition`.

### Data type

For a simple case expression, `expr` and all `comparison_expr` values must be of the same data type (such as `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2` and `NCHAR`; `NVARCHAR2`, `NUMBER` and `BINARY_FLOAT`; `BINARY_DOUBLE`), or must be of numeric types. If all return expressions are of the numeric type, OceanBase Database uses the data type with the highest precedence, explicitly converts parameters of other types to this data type, and returns the value of this data type.

For a simple case expression or searched case expression, the data types of all `return_exprs` expressions must be the same (for example, `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, and `NCHAR`; `NVARCHAR2`, `NUMBER`, and `BINARY_FLOAT`; `BINARY_DOUBLE`), or must be numeric types. If all return expressions are of the numeric type, OceanBase Database uses the data type with the highest precedence, explicitly converts parameters of other types to this data type, and returns the value of this data type.

## Examples

### Example of a simple case expression

```sql
SELECT cust_last_name,
    CASE sale_quantity
    WHEN 100 THEN 'Low'
    WHEN 500 THEN 'High'
    ELSE 'Medium' END AS quantity
FROM customer
ORDER BY cust_last_name, quantity;
```

### Example of a searched case expression

```sql
SELECT AVG(CASE WHEN e.salary > 6000 THEN e.salary
ELSE 6000 END) "Average Salary" FROM employees e;
```
