# Replace the arbitration service

If the OBServer node where the arbitration service is deployed fails, you can deploy the arbitration service on another OBServer node instead.

## Prerequisites

The OceanBase Database software is installed on the new OBServer node and the arbitration service is enabled. <!-- For more information, see [Deploy an OceanBase cluster with two replicas and the arbitration service](../../../4.deploy/3.deploy-oceanbase-database-enterprise/4.command-line-deployment/3.deploy-the-oceanbase-cluster-command-line/2.deploy-the-quorum-high-availability-service.md). -->

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

   Note that you must specify the corresponding fields in the following sample code based on your actual database configurations.

   ```shell
   obclient -h10.xx.xx.xx -P2883 -uroot@sys -p***** -A
   ```

   For more information about how to connect to a database, see [Database connection overview (MySQL mode)](../../../3.develop/1.application-development-of-mysql-mode/1.database-connection-with-client-of-mysql-mode/1.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md) or [Database connection overview (Oracle mode)](../../../3.develop/2.application-development-of-oracle-mode/1.database-connection-of-oracle-mode/1.connection-methods-overview-of-oracle-mode.md).

2. Execute the following statement to replace the arbitration service:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM REPLACE ARBITRATION SERVICE 'curr_arb_server_ip:curr_arb_server_port' WITH 'new_arb_server_ip:new_arb_server_port';
   ```

   Parameters:

   * `curr_arb_server_ip:curr_arb_server_port`: the IP address and  remote procedure call (RPC) port of the faulty OBServer node on which the arbitration service is deployed. By default, Port 2882 is used.

   * `new_arb_server_ip:new_arb_server_port`: the IP address and RPC port of the new OBServer node on which the arbitration service is deployed. By default, Port 2882 is used.

   Sample statement:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM REPLACE ARBITRATION SERVICE '100.xx.xx.x2:2882' WITH '100.xx.xx.x3:2882';
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

3. (Optional) If the execution of the replacement command times out, execute the following statement to query the `DBA_OB_ARBITRATION_SERVICE` view for the replacement status:

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM DBA_OB_ARBITRATION_SERVICE;
   ```

   If the value of the `PREVIOUS_ARBITRATION_SERVICE` field in the query result is not empty, the replacement is in progress in the background. Wait for the replacement process to complete. If the value in the `PREVIOUS_ARBITRATION_SERVICE` column is empty, the arbitration service is replaced.

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_ARBITRATION_SERVICE` view, see [DBA_OB_ARBITRATION_SERVICE](../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/4.system-overview-of-mysql-mode/2.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/196.oceanbase-dba_ob_arbitration_service-mysql.md).

## References

For more information about the arbitration service, see the following topics:

* [Overview](1.arbitration-service-overview.md)

* [Enable the arbitration service](2.enable-the-arbitration-service.md)

* [Disable the arbitration service](3.disable-the-arbitration-service.md)

* [Modify the downgrade timeout period](4.modify-the-degradation-timeout.md)

* [Remove the arbitration service](6.remove-the-arbitration-service.md)
