|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Overview

The lifecycle of a transaction usually consists of the start of the transaction, the execution of queries, the execution of DML statements, and the end of the transaction. To explicitly start a transaction, you can use a `BEGIN` or `START TRANSACTION` statement. You can also use a DML statement to implicitly start the transaction. To end a transaction, you can use a `COMMIT` statement to commit the transaction. You can also use a `ROLLBACK` statement to end the transaction through rollback. In addition, the execution of a DDL statement in an active transaction implicitly commits the transaction.

You can create a savepoint in a transaction to mark a point in the transaction, and then roll back the transaction to this point using the `ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT` statement as needed during the transaction execution process. For more information about savepoints, see [Savepoint](../500.transaction-control/300.savepoint.md).

## Transaction size

In OceanBase Database V2.x, the maximum size of a transaction is usually limited to 100 MB. The size of a transaction is based on the `_tenant_max_trx_size` parameter in the tenant configuration and the `_max_trx_size` parameter in the cluster configuration. If you set both parameters, the `_tenant_max_trx_size` parameter prevails.

OceanBase Database V3.x supports large transactions and does not specify limits on the size of the transaction.

## Statement timeout and transaction timeout

The `ob_query_timeout` system variable specifies the timeout period for statement execution. If a statement fails to be executed within this period, the timeout error code `-6212` is returned to the application and the statement must be rolled back. In most cases, the default timeout period for statement execution is `10s`.

The `ob_trx_timeout` system variable specifies the timeout period for transaction execution. If a transaction fails to be executed within this period, the timeout error code `-6210` is returned to the application. In this case, the application must execute a `ROLLBACK` statement to roll back the transaction.

The `ob_trx_idle_timeout` system variable specifies the maximum period for a transaction in a session to stay in the `IDLE` state. If you do not execute a DML statement or you do not end the transaction during this period, the transaction is automatically rolled back. After this, if you execute a DML statement, the error code `-6224` is returned to the application. In this case, the application must execute a `ROLLBACK` statement to clear the session state.

## Transaction query

You can use the `__all_virtual_trans_stat` virtual table to query all active transactions in the system. For more information about active transactions, see [Active transactions](../500.transaction-control/200.active-transactions.md).
