# OBLOADER & OBDUMPER

## What is OBLOADER?

OBLOADER is a client tool that is developed in Java. At present, OBLOADER applies only to OceanBase Database. You can use OBLOADER to import database definitions and table data files from the storage media to OceanBase Database.

We recommend that you use OBLOADER in combination with OBDUMPER. OBLOADER is compatible with the CSV files exported by using client tools such as mysqldump or Mydumper. Therefore, you can use OBLOADER in data migration.

OBLOADER provides various types of built-in data preprocessing functions to improve its data import performance. The automatic fault tolerance mechanism ensures data import stability. Rich monitoring information is provided for you to observe the import performance and progress in real time.

OBLOADER mainly provides the following features:

* Allows you to import database object definitions and table data from local disks, Apache Hadoop, Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS), and Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3).

* Allows you to import SQL files exported by mysqldump.

* Allows you to import data files in the standard CSV, INSERT SQL, ORC, or Parquet format.

* Allows you to set data preprocessing rules and configure field mappings between files and tables.

* Supports features such as import throttling, memory exhaustion prevention, resumption after an interruption, and automatic retries.

* Allows you to specify a custom log directory to store bad data and conflicting data during import.

* Automatically splits large files without consuming additional storage space.

* Supports encryption of sensitive parameters specified in commands, such as the database account and password and cloud storage account and password.

## What is OBDUMPER?

OBDUMPER is a client tool that is developed in Java. At present, OBDUMPER applies only to OceanBase Database. You can use OBDUMPER to export objects and table data from OceanBase Database to the storage media in the specified file format.

To use OBDUMPER in logical backup, you can directly integrate OBDUMPER to the database O&M system. OBDUMPER cannot be used in incremental backup. Compared with other client export tools such as mysqldump, OBDUMPER has the following benefits:

* Quick data export: Multiple data query strategies are designed to significantly improve the export performance.

* Versatile data exchange capabilities: Data in tables can be exported to multiple types of storage media in different formats.

* Powerful data processing capabilities: Data is compressed, encrypted, desensitized, and preprocessed before being exported.

OBDUMPER provides the following features:

* Allows you to export database object definitions and table data to local disks, Alibaba Cloud OSS, and Amazon S3.

* Allows you to export table data to files in the CSV, INSERT SQL, ORC, or Parquet format.

* Allows you to specify a partition name to export only the data in the specified table partition.

* Allows you to specify global filters to export only the data that meets the specified conditions.

* Allows you to configure data preprocessing rules to convert and desensitize data before export.

* Allows you to specify system change numbers (SCNs) or timestamps to export only the historical snapshot data of desired transaction points or time points.

* Allows you to export data from a follower replica, which is different from a standby cluster, of an OceanBase cluster.  

* Allows you to specify a custom query statement to export only the result set of the query statement.

* Allows you to use the latest snapshot version to export globally consistent data without locking tables.

* Supports encryption of sensitive parameters specified in commands, such as the database account and password and cloud storage account and password.
