liboblog compilation instructions 
======================================================



Code 
-------------------------

The code of liboblog is stored in two sub-directories in the `src/liboblog/` directory:

* The source code of liboblog is stored in the src/liboblog/src directory.

  

* oblog_tailf, a simple application for you to experience the features of liboblog is provided in the src/liboblog/tests directory. For more information, see [Experience OceanBase CDC capabilities with oblog_tailf](/en-US/9.ecological-tools/4.CDC/2.oceanbase-cdc/1.install-cdc/2.rve4im.md). The following objects are in the src/liboblog/tests directory:

  * Source files of oblog_tailf. You can use them as a reference when you develop your own incremental data consumption tools for OceanBase Database.

    
  
  * watch\*.sh files. They are monitoring scripts.

    
  

  




Compilation 
--------------------------------

To compile the liboblog, you need to add the `OB_BUILD_LIBOBLOG=ON` parameter when compiling the OceanBase code repository. For more information about the code repository, see [Compile OceanBase code](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase#how-to-build). 

To add the OB_BUILD_LIBOBLOG=ON parameter, run this command: `./build.sh debug --init -DOB_BUILD_LIBOBLOG=ON --make`

The compiled components are liboblog.so and oblog_tailf. You can find the liboblog.so in the `${PROJECT_BUILD_DIR}/src/liboblog/src/` directory and the oblog_tailf in the `${PROJECT_BUILD_DIR}/src/liboblog/tests` directory. 

You can run the `./liboblog.so -v` command in the directory of liboblog.so to view the version, build time, and build method of the liboblog.

