Install and deploy liboblog 
================================================

You can install and deploy liboblog by compiling liboblog on your own or using an RPM package.

Compile liboblog on your own 
-------------------------------------------------

### Code 

The code of liboblog is stored in two sub-directories in the `src/liboblog/` directory:

* The source code of liboblog is stored in the `src/liboblog/src` directory.

  

* oblog_tailf, a simple application of liboblog, is provided in the `src/liboblog/tests` directory. For more information, see [oblog_tailf](/en-US/9.ecological-tools/4.CDC/2.oceanbase-cdc/1.install-cdc/4.oblog_tailf.md). The following objects are in the `src/liboblog/tests` directory:

  * Source files of oblog_tailf. You can use them as a reference when you develop your own incremental data consumption tools for OceanBase Database.

    
  
  * watch\*.sh files. They are monitoring scripts.

    
  

  




### Compilation 

To compile the liboblog, you need to add the `OB_BUILD_LIBOBLOG=ON` parameter when compiling the OceanBase code repository. For more information about the code repository, see [Compile OceanBase code](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase#how-to-build). 

To add the OB_BUILD_LIBOBLOG=ON parameter, run this command: `./build.sh debug --init -DOB_BUILD_LIBOBLOG=ON --make`

The compiled components are liboblog.so and oblog_tailf. You can find the liboblog.so in the `${PROJECT_BUILD_DIR}/src/liboblog/src/` directory and the oblog_tailf in the `${PROJECT_BUILD_DIR}/src/liboblog/tests/` directory. 

You can run the `./liboblog.so -v` command in the directory of liboblog.so to view the version, build time, and build method of the liboblog.

Use an RPM package 
---------------------------------------

liboblog will publish its own RPM package after the OceanBase Community Edition is released and name its package in the oceanbase-ce-devel-${package-date} format. 

The RPM package contains the following components required for running liboblog:

* Header files: `liboblog.h` and `ob_errno.h`

  

* Binary files, including `liboblog.so` and `oblog_tailf`

  

* Configuration reference file: `liboblog.conf`

  




Decompression method: `rpm2cpio ${filename_of_liboblog_rpm}.rpm | cpio -idv`. 
**Note**



After you install the oblogproxy, liboblog-related dependencies are added automatically. For more information about how to install oblogproxy, see [Use source code to build an oblogproxy](/en-US/9.ecological-tools/4.CDC/3.oblogproxy/1.installation-and-deployment-2/1.installation-and-deployment-1.md) and [Install and deploy oblogproxy by using the installation package](/en-US/9.ecological-tools/4.CDC/3.oblogproxy/1.installation-and-deployment-2/2.install-and-deploy-logproxy-by-using-the-installation-package.md).



