Overview
=======================

A trigger is a feature provided in OceanBase Database. Similar to stored procedures and functions, a trigger includes PL blocks for declaration, execution, and exception handling.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

A trigger is executed when a specific event occurs. You can specify whether a trigger fires before or after an event. You can also specify whether a trigger fires for a specific event or fires for a row of data affected by an event.

A trigger is an independent object that is automatically implicitly executed when a specific event occurs. A trigger does not accept parameters. The triggering event can be an `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE` operation on a database table.
  
  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>OceanBase Database V2.2.7x and earlier versions support only row-level triggers on tables. </p>
  </main>

Simple triggers fire on the following four occasions:

* A statement-level `BEFORE` trigger fires before the triggering event occurs.



* A statement-level `AFTER` trigger fires after the triggering event occurs.



* A row-level `BEFORE` trigger fires before each row is affected by the triggering event.



* A row-level `AFTER` trigger fires after each row is affected by the triggering event.






A DML statement may trigger multiple simple triggers, which are executed in the following order: statement-level `BEFORE` trigger > row-level `BEFORE` trigger > row-level `AFTER` trigger > statement-level `AFTER` trigger.

The execution order for triggers of the same type is random. Currently, you cannot specify the order.
