# Deployment description

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) runs in a Docker container. OCP and OceanBase Database have the same requirements on the server architecture and Linux OS.

## Description

OCP is an enterprise-level database management platform for OceanBase Database. You can install, upgrade, scale up, and uninstall OceanBase Database clusters, create and manage maintenance tasks, monitor the cluster running status, and view alerts in OCP with a few clicks.

OCP supports all major versions of OceanBase Database and the full-lifecycle management of components such as OceanBase clusters and OceanBase Database tenants. It manages OceanBase Database resources such as hosts, networks, and software packages. You can use OCP to manage OceanBase clusters more efficiently at reduced IT O&M costs.

OCP can be deployed in single-node, three-node, or multi-zone mode.

## Single-node deployment

This deployment mode provides all OCP capabilities through a single node. In this mode, the load balancing mode is `none`.

## Deployment in three-node mode

You can deploy OCP in three-node mode to achieve high availability.

In this mode, you can select DNS load balancing or external load balancing devices, such as F5.

## Deployment in multi-zone mode

A zone is a logical zone that is mapped from one or more IDCs hosting OceanBase Database services.

In multi-zone deployment mode, an OCP cluster is deployed across multiple zones, and access links among OCP, OceanBase Database, and OBProxy are isolated preferentially by zone. Services hosted in a zone are preferentially managed by OCP in the zone.
