# ORA_ROWSCN pseudocolumn

The ORA_ROWSCN pseudocolumn returns the system change number (SCN) of the most recent change to a row. The SCN represents the commit time of the transaction that modified the row. This topic describes how to use the ORA_ROWSCN pseudocolumn.

A change reflected by the `ORA_ROWSCN` pseudocolumn can occur at the coarse-grained block level or the fine-grained row level.

The SCN returned by the `ORA_ROWSCN` pseudocolumn may be inaccurate at both the block and row levels. For example, if a transaction changes the `r0` row in a block and is committed at SCN 15, the value returned by `ORA_ROWSCN` is not always 15 for the row. Although the value returned by `ORA_ROWSCN` will never be less than 15, it can be any value greater than or equal to 15. In other words, `ORA_ROWSCN` does not always return the exact SCN for the transaction that last modified the row. However, for fine-grained `ORA_ROWSCN`, if two transactions `tran1` and `tran2` modify the same row `r0` in sequence and are committed afterward, the value returned by `ORA_ROWSCN` for `r0` after the commit of `tran1` is less than the value returned after the commit of `tran2`. If a block is queried twice, the value of `ORA_ROWSCN` can change between the queries even though no row is updated between the queries. The only thing can be assured is that the value of `ORA_ROWSCN` in both queries is greater than the commit SCN of the transaction that last modified that row.

Take note of the following considerations:

* The `ORA_ROWSCN` pseudocolumn cannot be used in queries for views. However, you can use this pseudocolumn to reference the underlying table when you create a view. You can also use it in a `WHERE` clause of a `DELETE` or `UPDATE` statement.

* `ORA_ROWSCN` is not supported for flashback queries.

* The `ORA_ROWSCN` pseudocolumn cannot be used for left-side tables.
