| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# ROWNUM pseudocolumn

The `ROWNUM` pseudocolumn assigns a number to each row returned by a query, which indicates the position of the row in the result set. It returns 1 for the first row, 2 for the second row, and so forth. This topic describes how to use the `ROWNUM` pseudocolumn.

`ROWNUM` can limit the number of rows returned by a query. For example, the following statement returns five rows in the `employees` table.

```sql
SELECT * FROM employees WHERE rownum <=5;
```

When you use `ROWNUM`, note that:

* If an `ORDER BY` clause follows `ROWNUM` in a query, the rows that meet the `WHERE` condition are reordered. If you put an `ORDER BY` clause in a subquery and place the `ROWNUM` condition in a top-N query, you can force the `ROWNUM` condition to be executed after the ordering of the rows. For example, the following SQL statement queries all employees and reorders the information of the first five employees in the result set by age in descending order:

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM employees WHERE rownum <=5 ORDER BY age DESC;
   ```

   To query information of the five oldest employees in the employees table, execute the following SQL statement:

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM (SELECT * FROM employees ORDER BY age DESC) WHERE rownum <= 5;
   ```

* If you specify that `ROWNUM` in the `WHERE` clause is greater than any positive integer, `FALSE` is always returned. For example, if you execute the following SQL statement, no result is returned:

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM employees WHERE rownum > 1;
   ```

   The `ROWNUM` value 1 is assigned to the first row fetched, which makes the `WHERE` condition `FALSE`. Therefore, this row is not returned. The `ROWNUM` value 1 is then assigned to the second row to be fetched, and the `WHERE` condition is still `FALSE`. This row is again not returned. All rows subsequently fail to meet the condition, so no data is returned.

You can use the `UPDATE` statement to assign the `ROWNUM` values to each row in a column of the table. Here is an example:

```sql
UPDATE employees SET ID = rownum;
```

This statement assigns the `ROWNUM` values from 1 to N to the rows in the `ID` column of the `employees` table.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The use of <code>ROWNUM</code> in queries may affect view optimization. </p>
  </main>
