# Upgrade an OceanBase cluster

OceanBase Shell (OBShell) supports the following OceanBase Database upgrade methods:

- Upgrade a cluster by calling API operations

- Upgrade a cluster by using the CLI

This topic uses an OceanBase cluster with three replicas as an example to describe how to upgrade an OceanBase cluster by using OBShell.

## Prerequisites

- The OceanBase cluster is managed by OBShell. For more information, see [Take over an OceanBase cluster not deployed by OBShell](300.take-over-non-obshell-deployed-clusters.md).

- All OBServer nodes and OBShell processes in the OceanBase cluster are running normally.

- Before the upgrade, the tenants in the OceanBase cluster are not undergoing a major compaction.

## Deployment mode

The following table describes the three machines in the OceanBase cluster, with OBShell using the default port 2886.

| Role | Machine | Remarks |
| --- | --- | --- |
| OBServer node | 10.10.10.1 | In OceanBase Database Zone 1 |
| OBServer node | 10.10.10.2 | In OceanBase Database Zone 2 |
| OBServer node | 10.10.10.3 | In OceanBase Database Zone 3 |

## Upgrade a cluster by calling API operations

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>OBShell verifies the security of requested API operations. Therefore, you must encrypt the request before you call an API operation. For more information, see <a href='../400.obshell-api-reference/200.api-hybrid-encryption.md'>Hybrid encryption for API operations</a>. You must also specify <code>${request_headers}</code> and <code>${request_body}</code> in the <code>curl</code> command. </p>
</main>

### Step 1: Upload the RPM packages of the target version

Call the `/api/v1/upgrade/package` API operation in any OBShell process to upload the packages. The `oceanbase-ce` and `oceanbase-ce-libs` packages are required. For more information, see [UploadPkg](../400.obshell-api-reference/900.upload-rpm.md).

```shell
[admin@test001 ~]$ curl -H 'X-OCS-Header:${request_headers}' -X POST -F "file=@/data/upgrade/oceanbase-ce-4.2.2.0-xxx.el7.x86_64.rpm" http://10.10.10.1:2886/api/v1/upgrade/package
```

```bash
[admin@test001 ~]$ curl -H 'X-OCS-Header:${request_headers}' -X POST -F "file=@/data/upgrade/oceanbase-ce-libs-4.2.2.0-xxx.el7.x86_64.rpm" http://10.10.10.1:2886/api/v1/upgrade/package
```

### (Optional) Step 2: Call the upgrade check API operation

Call the `/api/v1/ob/upgrade/check` API operation in any OBShell process to perform the upgrade check. The upgrade check verifies the upgrade environment, whether the packages of the target version have been uploaded, and whether the products required for the upgrade are all obtained. For more information, see [ObUpgradeCheck](../400.obshell-api-reference/1100.oceanbase-upgrade-check.md). The API operation creates an asynchronous task. For more information about how to query the task progress, see [GetDagDetails](../400.obshell-api-reference/2000.get-dag-detail.md). Wait for the upgrade check task to complete.

```shell
[admin@test001 ~]$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 'X-OCS-Header:${request_headers}' -X POST -d '${request_body}' http://10.10.10.1:2886/api/v1/ob/upgrade/check
```

### Step 3: Call the upgrade API operation

Call the `/api/v1/ob/upgrade` API operation in any OBShell process to perform the upgrade. For more information, see [UpgradeOb](../400.obshell-api-reference/1300.upgrade-oceanbase.md). The API operation creates an asynchronous O&M task. For more information about how to query the task progress, see [GetDagDetails](../400.obshell-api-reference/2000.get-dag-detail.md). Wait for the upgrade task to complete.

```shell
[admin@test001 ~]$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 'X-OCS-Header:${request_headers}' -X POST -d '${request_body}' http://10.10.10.1:2886/api/v1/ob/upgrade
```

### Step 4: Verify the upgrade result

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of OceanBase Database as the `root` user, and run the following command to query the database version:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> select build_version from oceanbase.dba_ob_servers;
   ```

2. Run the following command to query the OBShell version:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> select version from ocs.all_agent;
   ```

## Upgrade a cluster by using the CLI

### Step 1: Run the upgrade command to perform the upgrade

Run the `obshell cluster upgrade` command on any OBServer node. Use `-d` to specify the path to the packages of the target version. For more information, see [obshell cluster upgrade](../300.obshell-clients/200.cluster-commands.md).

```shell
[admin@test001 ~]$ /home/admin/oceanbase/bin/obshell cluster upgrade -d /home/admin/oceanbase/upgrade/
```

### Step 2: Verify the upgrade result

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of OceanBase Database as the `root` user, and run the following command to query the database version:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> select build_version from oceanbase.dba_ob_servers;
   ```

2. Run the following command to query the OBShell version:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> select version from ocs.all_agent;
   ```
