# Upgrade OBShell

You can upgrade OceanBase Shell (OBShell) in the following ways:

- Upgrade OBShell by calling API operations

- Upgrade OBShell by using the CLI

This topic describes how to upgrade OBShell in an OceanBase cluster with three replicas.

## Prerequisites

- The OceanBase cluster is managed by OBShell. For more information, see [Take over an OceanBase cluster not deployed by OBShell](300.take-over-non-obshell-deployed-clusters.md).

- All OBServer nodes and OBShell processes in the OceanBase cluster are running normally.

## Deployment mode

The following table describes the three machines in the OceanBase cluster, with OBShell using the default port 2886.

| Role | Machine | Remarks |
| --- | --- | --- |
| OBServer node | 10.10.10.1 | In OceanBase Database Zone 1 |
| OBServer node | 10.10.10.2 | In OceanBase Database Zone 2 |
| OBServer node | 10.10.10.3 | In OceanBase Database Zone 3 |

## Upgrade OBShell by calling API operations

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>OBShell verifies the security of requested API operations. Therefore, you must encrypt the request before you call an API operation. For more information, see <a href='../400.obshell-api-reference/200.api-hybrid-encryption.md'>Hybrid encryption for API operations</a>. You must also specify <code>${request_headers}</code> and <code>${request_body}</code> in the <code>curl</code> command. </p>
</main>

### Step 1: Upload the RPM package of the target version

Call the `/api/v1/upgrade/package` API operation in any OBShell process to upload the package. The `obshell` package is required. For more information, see [UploadPkg](../400.obshell-api-reference/900.upload-rpm.md).

```shell
[admin@test001 ~]$ curl -H 'X-OCS-Header:${request_headers}' -X POST -F "file=@/data/upgrade/obshell-4.2.2.0-xxx.el7.x86_64.rpm" http://10.10.10.1:2886/api/v1/upgrade/package
```

### (Optional) Step 2: Call the upgrade check API operation

Call the `/api/v1/agent/upgrade/check` API operation in any OBShell process to perform the upgrade check. The upgrade check verifies whether the package of the target version has been uploaded and whether the products required for the upgrade are all obtained. For more information, see [AgentUpgradeCheck](../400.obshell-api-reference/1000.agent-upgrade-check.md). The API operation creates an asynchronous task. For more information about how to query the task progress, see [GetDagDetails](../400.obshell-api-reference/2000.get-dag-detail.md). Wait for the upgrade check task to complete.

```shell
[admin@test001 ~]$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 'X-OCS-Header:${request_headers}' -X POST -d '${request_body}' http://10.10.10.1:2886/api/v1/agent/upgrade/check
```

### Step 3: Call the upgrade API operation

Call the `/api/v1/agent/upgrade` API operation in any OBShell process to perform the upgrade. For more information, see [UpgradeAgent](../400.obshell-api-reference/1200.upgrade-agent.md). The API operation creates an asynchronous O&M task. For more information about how to query the task progress, see [GetDagDetails](../400.obshell-api-reference/2000.get-dag-detail.md). Wait for the upgrade task to complete.

```shell
[admin@test001 ~]$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 'X-OCS-Header:${request_headers}' -X POST -d '${request_body}' http://10.10.10.1:2886/api/v1/agent/upgrade
```

### Step 4: Verify the upgrade result

Log on to the `sys` tenant of OceanBase Database as the `root` user, and run the following command to query the OBShell version:

```shell
obclient [oceanbase]> select version from ocs.all_agent;
```

## Upgrade OBShell by using the CLI

### Step 1: Run the upgrade command to perform the upgrade

Run the `obshell agent upgrade` command on any OBServer node. Use `-d` to specify the path to the package of the target version. For more information, see [obshell agent upgrade](../300.obshell-clients/100.agent-commands.md).

```shell
[admin@test001 ~]$ /home/admin/oceanbase/bin/obshell agent upgrade -d /data/upgrade/
```

### Step 2: Verify the upgrade result

Log on to the `sys` tenant of OceanBase Database as the `root` user, and run the following command to query the OBShell version:

```shell
obclient [oceanbase]> select version from ocs.all_agent;
```
