# Overview

OceanBase Database allows you to upgrade a cluster by using an upgrade script. The upgrade on the server side has no impact on applications, and can be performed without suspending data write or services. OceanBase Database is upgraded zone by zone. During the upgrade, the leader role is switched from one zone to another, and the services running in the zone to be upgraded are migrated to other zones.

This topic describes the upgrade path, process, notes, limits, and impact.

## Upgrade path

You can directly upgrade OceanBase Database from V4.0.0.0 to V4.1.0.0.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>At present, OceanBase Database cannot be upgraded from a version earlier than V4.0 to V4.x. </p>
</main>

## Upgrade process

The upgrade script depends only on the Python script related to the RPM package of the target version. To be specific, if the target version is V4.1.0 or later, only one upgrade process exists and only the RPM package of the target version is required. After the RPM package of OceanBase Database is decompressed, you can obtain the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file, which records the upgrade topology of OceanBase Database.

## Considerations

Observe the following considerations when you upgrade OceanBase Database:

* If the `ADD SERVER or DELETE SERVER` operation needs to be performed during the upgrade, contact OceanBase Technical Support.
* Transition versions cannot be directly upgraded, but need to be upgraded by following the upgrade path.
* To execute the upgrade script, you must connect to Root Service in the sys tenant directly instead of by using an OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP).
* The following parameters may be modified during the upgrade. Therefore, back up these parameters before the upgrade.
   * `server_permanent_offline_time`
   * `enable_rebalance`
   * `enable_rereplication`

## Limitations

Pay attention to the following limitations during the upgrade of OceanBase Database.

* DDL is disabled in some phases of the upgrade, and is automatically enabled after the upgrade.
* Major freezes are disabled during the upgrade between some versions, and are automatically enabled after the upgrade.
* Migration, replication, and load balancing are disabled during the upgrade between some versions.
* During the upgrade of a cluster, physical baseline backup and physical recovery are not allowed, but log archiving is not interrupted.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>During the upgrade of OceanBase Database from V4.0 to V4.1, log archiving is interrupted. </p>
  </main>

* Switchover and failover are not allowed during the upgrade.
* Tenant creation is not allowed.

## Upgrade impact

Pay attention to the following impact during the upgrade of OceanBase Database.

* The leader role is switched from one zone to another during the upgrade, which increases the response time (RT) a little bit.

* The leader-follower switchover during the upgrade can affect your business. Transactions that exceed 100 ms are terminated.

## What to do next

[Perform an upgrade](2.start-upgrade.md)

## References

* [server_permanent_offline_time](../../../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/190.server_permanent_offline_time.md)
* [enable_rebalance](../../../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/79.enable_rebalance.md)
* [enable_rereplication](../../../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/82.enable_rereplication.md)
