| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Security considerations for data conversion

OceanBase Database uses format models to describe datetime stored in a string or character literals in the numeric format in Oracle mode. Note the following content during data conversion.

When a datetime value is converted to text, either by implicit conversion or by explicit conversion that does not specify a format model, the format model is defined by one of the globalization session variables `NLS_DATE_FORMAT`, `NLS_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT`, and `NLS_TIMESTAMP_TZ_ FORMAT`. You can specify the values of the variables in the client environment or by using an `ALTER SESSION` statement.

The dependency of format models on session variables can have a negative impact on database security when conversion without an explicit format model is applied to a datetime value that is being concatenated to text of a dynamic SQL statement.

Dynamic SQL statements are those whose text is generated by using a PL program or a stored procedure. OceanBase Database deals with most dynamic SQL statements by using the `EXECUTE IMMEDIATE` statement. You can use the PL system package `DBMS_SQL` to run the dynamic SQL statements if the specified conditions are met.

In the following example, the `start_date` is of the `DATE` data type. The format model specified by the system variable `NLS_DATE_FORMAT` is used to convert the value of the `start_date` parameter to text and then send the conversion result to the SQL text. A datetime format model can consist of text enclosed in double quotation marks.

```sql
SELECT last_name FROM employees WHERE hiredate > '' || start_date || '';
```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>A user who explicitly sets a global variable for a session can decide the literals to be generated by the preceding conversion. </li>
    <li>If the SQL statement is executed by a PL procedure, the procedure becomes vulnerable to SQL injection that is implemented by modifying the session parameter. If the procedure runs with definer's rights, with higher privileges than the session itself, the user can gain unauthorized access to sensitive data. This may cause serious security problems. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

Implicit and explicit conversion for numeric values may also suffer from the similar problem, because the conversion result may depend on the session parameter `NLS_NUMERIC_CHARACTERS`. This parameter defines the decimal and group separator characters. If the decimal separator is defined to be a single quotation mark (') or double quotation mark ("), SQL injection may occur.
