# (Optional) Configure the clock source

This topic describes how to configure the Network Time Protocol (NTP) clock source for servers in a cluster. If you are planning to deploy OceanBase Database on a single server, or for personal testing purposes, or if you have already configured NTP clock synchronization, skip this step. 

However, if you plan to deploy a distributed OceanBase cluster, it is necessary to ensure time synchronization among all servers in the cluster. Otherwise, the cluster will not be able to start, and the services may encounter exceptions during runtime. The allowed clock deviation in the OceanBase cluster should not exceed 2 seconds. If the deviation exceeds 2 seconds, the cluster may become leaderless. To restore it to normal, you will need to restore clock synchronization and restart the OceanBase cluster.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <ul>
   <li>
   <p>This topic provides operational guidance based on the CentOS Linux 7.9 image with the x86 architecture. Other environments may have slight differences, so please refer to the actual environment.</p>
   </li>
   <li>
   <p>Starting from V4.0.0, OceanBase Database supports dynamically modifying the clock. If the modification interval is within 2 seconds, it will not affect the data correctness and cluster stability.</p>
   </li>
   <li>
   <p>If the nodes for deploying OCP Express or OCP are different from that for deploying the OceanBase cluster, you need to synchronize the clock source between the OCP Express or OCP nodes and the OceanBase cluster nodes. This prevents operational exceptions in OCP Express or OCP due to clock deviations.</p>
   </li>
   </ul>
</main>

## Prerequisites

You have the root user privileges on all nodes.

## Procedure

Perform the following steps to configure the NTP clock source.

1. Run the following command on each server to install NTP:

   ```bash
   yum install ntp ntpdate -y
   ```

2. Run the following command to check the NTP connection to the server:

   ```shell
   [root@centos-01 ~]# ntpq -4p
   remote refid st t when poll reach delay offset jitter
   ==============================================================================
   *time6.aliyun.co xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx 2 u 712 1024 377 21.951 4.253 4.208
   ```

3. (Optional) Enable the NTP service.

   If you already have an NTP server, skip this step. The following example describes how to enable time synchronization by taking the server `10.10.10.1` as the NTP server.

   1. Edit the configuration file.

      Log on to the NTP server as the root user and run the following command to edit the configuration file:

      ```bash
      vi /etc/ntp.conf
      ```

      Add the following content to the configuration file:

      ```bash
      server <your_ntp_server_ip>
      ```

      Save and close the file.

   2. Run the following command to restart the NTP service:

      ```bash
      service ntpd restart
      ```

   3. Run the following command to check whether the NTP service is enabled:

      ```bash
      ps -ef | grep -i ntpd
      ```

   4. Run the following command to enable the NTP service upon startup.

      ```bash
      chkconfig ntpd on
      ```

4. Enable the NTP service.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
     <h4>Note</h4>
     <p>You can enable the NTP service 5 minutes after the NTP server is started. Otherwise, the system prompts "no server suitable for synchronization found". </p>
   </main>

   1. Log on to an OBServer node as the root user.

   2. Run the following command to stop the NTP service:

      ```bash
      service ntpd stop
      ```

   3. Run the following command to synchronize the time with the NTP server:

      ```bash
      ntpdate 10.10.10.1
      ```

   4. Edit the configuration file.

      Run the following command to open the configuration file:

      ```bash
      vi /etc/ntp.conf
      ```

      Add the following content to the configuration file:

      ```bash
      server <your_ntp_server_ip>
      ```

   5. Run the following command to start the NTP service:

      ```bash
      /etc/init.d/ntpd start
      ```

5. Verify that the configuration is successful.

   Run the following command:

   ```bash
   ntpstat
   ```

   The following output is returned:

   ```bash
   synchronised to NTP server (xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx) at stratum 3
   time correct to within 2 ms
   polling server every 64 s
   ```

   Run the following command:

   ```bash
   timedatectl
   ```

   The following output is returned:

   ```bash
         Local time: Thu 2021-04-22 11:02:32 CST
     Universal time: Thu 2021-04-22 03:02:32 UTC
           RTC time: Thu 2021-04-22 11:02:32
          Time zone: Asia/Shanghai (CST, +0800)
        NTP enabled: yes
   NTP synchronized: yes
    RTC in local TZ: yes
         DST active: n/a
   ```

   The outputs above indicate that the NTP service takes effect.