# (Optional) Configure limits.conf

This topic describes how to limit the number of processes by configuring the `limits.conf` file.

If you are an individual user, you can skip this topic. If you are an enterprise user, we recommend that you configure the `limits.conf` file.

You can modify the limit on resources by using the following two methods:

* Modify the limit at the session level when OceanBase Database is started.

* Modify the limit globally by using the `limits.conf` file in the `/etc/security/` directory.

OceanBase Database processes can be limited in terms of the following parameters: `Stack`, `Open Files`, and `Core File Size`. Here, `Stack` refers to the maximum stack size, `Open Files` refers to the maximum number of file handles, and `Core File Size` refers to the maximum size of core files.

## Modify parameters

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>You must perform this operation on each server. </p>
</main>

The following example shows how to set the value of the session-level `Stack` parameter to `unlimited`, the `Open Files` parameter to `655350`, and the `Core File Size` parameter to `unlimited`.

Run the following command to open the `limits.conf` file in the `/etc/security/` directory:

```shell
vi /etc/security/limits.conf
```

Add the following content to the `/limits.conf` file in the `/etc/security/` directory:

```shell
root soft nofile 655350
root hard nofile 655350
* soft nofile 655350
* hard nofile 655350
* soft stack unlimited
* hard stack unlimited
* soft nproc 655360
* hard nproc 655360
* soft core unlimited
* hard core unlimited
```

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>You need to check whether the <code>nproc</code> configuration exists in <code>/etc/security/limits.d/20-nproc.conf</code>. If it exists, you need to modify the value of <code>nproc</code> in that file accordingly.</p>
</main>

## View parameters

Log off from the session and log on again. Run the following command to check whether the configuration has taken effect:

```shell
ulimit -a
```

The output is as follows:

```shell
core file size          (blocks, -c) unlimited
data seg size           (kbytes, -d) unlimited
scheduling priority             (-e) 0
file size               (blocks, -f) unlimited
pending signals                 (-i) 252876
max locked memory       (kbytes, -l) 64
max memory size         (kbytes, -m) unlimited
open files                      (-n) 655350
pipe size            (512 bytes, -p) 8
POSIX message queues     (bytes, -q) 819200
real-time priority              (-r) 0
stack size              (kbytes, -s) unlimited
cpu time               (seconds, -t) unlimited
max user processes              (-u) 655360
virtual memory          (kbytes, -v) unlimited
file locks                      (-x) unlimited
```

In the previous output:

* `core file size` indicates the maximum size of core files, and the unit is block. The parameter corresponds to the `core` parameter in the `limits.conf` configuration file. Check whether the value is `unlimited`.

* `open files` indicates the maximum number of open file descriptors. The parameter corresponds to the `nofile` parameter in the `limits.conf` configuration file. Check whether the value is `655350`.

* `stack size` indicates the stack size in kilo bytes. The parameter corresponds to the `stack` parameter in the `limits.conf` configuration file. Check whether the value is `unlimited`.

* `max user processes` indicates the maximum number of user processes. The parameter corresponds to the `nproc` parameter in the `limits.conf` configuration file. Check whether the value is `655360`.
