Table group management statements 
======================================================



You can use the `ALTER TABLE` statement to add a table to or remove a table from a table group. You can also modify the `TABLEGROUP` property of the table. After you modify the `TABLEGROUP` property, RootService migrates the replicas in the background. It migrates the replicas that belong to the same partition group to the same node, and runs a command to include these partitions in the same replication group. 

Create a table group 
-----------------------------------------

The following example creates Table Group `grp1`.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLEGROUP grp1;
```



Remove a table from a table group 
------------------------------------------

The following example removes Table `t1` from its table group.

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 SET TABLEGROUP '';
```



Add a table to a table group 
-------------------------------------

The following example adds Table `t1` to Table Group `grp1`.

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 SET TABLEGROUP grp1;
```



Move a table from one table group to another 
-----------------------------------------------------

The following example moves Table `t1` from Table Group `grp1` to Table Group `grp2`.

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 SET TABLEGROUP grp2;
```



Delete a table group 
-----------------------------

You can execute the following statement to delete a table group, but you cannot delete a table group that is referenced by the `TABLEGROUP` property of a table. 

```sql
obclient> DROP TABLEGROUP grp1;
```



Change the partitioning method 
---------------------------------------

For a table in a table group, you cannot use the `ALTER TABLE` statement to change its partitioning method, locality, or primary zone. You must use the `ALTER TABLEGROUP` statement. 

When you change the partitioning method, locality, or primary zone of a table group, the same property is changed for every table in the table group. 

Change the locality 
----------------------------

The following example changes the locality of all tables in Table Group `grp1` to `F@z1,F@z3`.

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLEGROUP grp1 SET locality = 'F@z1,F@z3';
```



Change the primary zone 
--------------------------------

The following example changes the primary zone of all tables in Table Group `grp1` to `z1,z2`.

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLEGROUP grp1 SET primary_zone = 'z1,z2';
```



Drop partitions 
------------------------

The following example drops Partitions `p0` and `p1` from all tables in Table Group `grp1`. This operation is applicable only to range partitions. 

In this statement, `p0` and `p1` are partition names specified for range partitions when the table group was created, not the partition name in each table. The system can find the corresponding partitions in each table based on the range split point. 

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLEGROUP grp1 DROP PARTITION (p0,p1);
```



Add partitions 
-----------------------

The following example adds Partition `p4` for all tables in Table Group `grp1`. This operation is applicable only to range partitions. 

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLEGROUP grp1 ADD PARTITION (PARTITION p4 VALUES LESS THAN (200));
```


