What is OceanBase Database? 
================================================



OceanBase Database is a financial-grade distributed relational database. It provides community and enterprise editions:

* OceanBase Community Edition contains all core features of the database. Its source code is fully open and free to use.

  

* OceanBase Enterprise is an upgrade of OceanBase Community Edition. It provides many advanced features, such as advanced compatibility modes, GUI tools, operation auditing, data encryption, high availability, and high scalability. For more information about the features of OceanBase Enterprise, see [OceanBase Enterprise Documentation](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs).

  




This document applies only to OceanBase Community Edition. 

Features 
-----------------------------

OceanBase Database provides the following features:

* High availability

  OceanBase Database stores multiple data replicas across all nodes of a cluster to achieve high availability, zero recovery point objective (RPO), and multi-site high availability. The failure of a single node does not affect your business. This multi-replica mechanism ensures high availability and disaster recovery at the node, rack, IDC, and region levels. For conventional databases in active/standby mode, RPO is greater than zero if the primary node fails. OceanBase Database can reduce RPO to zero.
  

* Scalability

  OceanBase Database is highly scalable. You can scale it in or out online without any interruptions to your business, and it automatically balances system loads after scaling. The scaling process is transparent to applications.
  

* Low costs

  OceanBase Database can run on common servers and depends on no high-end hardware. This can help you save hardware costs. OceanBase Database uses an LSM-Tree-based storage engine that can compress data without compromising the performance. This can help you save storage costs.
  

* HTAP

  The distributed parallel computing engine of OceanBase Database greatly optimizes online transaction processing (OLTP) and online analytical processing (OLAP). It supports concurrent cross-node execution of data query language (DQL) and data manipulation language (DML) statements and is truly capable of hybrid transaction and analytical processing (HTAP).
  

* Compatibility

  OceanBase Database is highly compatible with the MySQL ecosystem. OceanBase Database supports all syntaxes of MySQL 5.6 and the seamless migration of applications from MySQL to OceanBase Database.
  

* Multi-tenancy

  OceanBase Database achieves resource isolation by separating tenants. Database instances do not affect each other. OceanBase Database uses privilege control to ensure the data security of all tenants. Combined with the extreme scalability, OceanBase Database can provide you with a secure and flexible database-as-a-service (DBaaS) service.
  




License 
----------------------------

OceanBase Community Edition is fully open source under the [MulanPubL - 2.0](http://license.coscl.org.cn/MulanPubL-2.0/index.html) license. You can copy and use the source code for free. Follow the requirements outlined in the Mulan license when you modify or distribute the source code.

