# Control the number of log files

A large number of log files may be generated during the running of OceanBase Database. You can control the number of log files to avoid occupying all the storage space on disks.

The `max_syslog_file_count` parameter specifies the maximum number of log files allowed. After you set this parameter, OceanBase Database controls the number of recent log files of each type based on the log file type and archive time.

* If you set the `max_syslog_file_count` parameter to `0`, the observer process does not control the number of log files.
* If you set the `max_syslog_file_count` parameter to a positive value, the observer process will limit the number of recent log files of each type to the specified value. For example, if you set the `max_syslog_file_count` parameter to `100`, the observer process limits the number of recent log files of each of the following types to `100`: `observer.log`, `observer.log.wf`, `election.log`, `election.log.wf`, `rootservice.log`, and `rootservice.log.wf`. Take the `observer.log` type as an example:

   * When the number of log files is smaller than 100, the number of log files will accumulate until 100. Then, the earliest generated log file will be deleted each time a new log file is generated.
   * When the number of log files is greater than or equal to 100, the number of recent log files keeps at 100. The earliest generated log file will be deleted each time a new log file is generated.

Procedure:

1. Set the `max_syslog_file_count` parameter in one of the following ways.

    * Set `max_syslog_file_count` when the OBServer is running.

      The following example shows how to set `max_syslog_file_count` on a client:

      ```sql
   obclient > ALTER SYSTEM SET max_syslog_file_count=20;
     ```
   
   * Set `max_syslog_file_count` in the `-o` option when you start an OBServer.

      The following example shows how to set `max_syslog_file_count` in `-o` when you start an OBServer:

      ```sql
   [admin@hostname oceanbase]$ /home/admin/oceanbase/bin/observer -i eth0 -P XXXX -p YYYY -z zone1 -d /home/admin/oceanbase/store/obdemo -r 'xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:xxxx:xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:xxxx xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:xxxx:yyyy' -c 20190716 -n obdemo -o "max_syslog_file_count=20,memory_limit_percentage=90,memstore_limit_percentage=60,datafile_disk_percentage=80,config_additional_dir=/data/1/obdemo/etc3;/data/log1/obdemo/etc2"
      ```
   
      For more information, see [Stop or start OBServer](../../1.manage-clusters/5.manage-observer/3.stop-or-start-observer.md).

2. (Optional) Enable automatic log file recycling.

   After this feature is enabled, when OceanBase Database is restarted, recent log files are retained for each log type based on the value of `max_syslog_file_count`, and other log files are recycled.

   ```sql
   obclient > ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_syslog_recycle='True';
   ```

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Description</h4>
    <p>The automatic log file recycling feature takes effect only when <code>max_syslog_file_count</code> is set to a positive value. For more information about the <code>max_syslog_file_count</code> and <code>enable_syslog_recycle</code> parameters, see <a href="../../../../5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/1.system-configuration-items-overview.md">System parameters</a>. </p>
   </main>
