| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# SHOW TRIGGERS

You can use the `SHOW TRIGGERS` statement to show the information about a trigger defined for a table in the database.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
SHOW TRIGGERS
[{FROM | IN} database_name]
[LIKE 'pattern' | WHERE expr]
```


The `FROM` clause specifies the database. If this clause is omitted, the default database is used. The `SHOW TRIGGERS` statement returns the information about triggers in only databases and tables that have the `TRIGGER` privilege.

The `LIKE` clause (if any) specifies the names of the tables to match and shows the triggers of these tables. You can select rows by using the condition specified by the `WHERE` clause.

The output of the `SHOW TRIGGERS` statement contains the following fields:

* `Trigger`: the name of the trigger.

* `Event`: the trigger event. It is the type of operation on the table that the trigger is associated with. The value can be `INSERT` (a row is inserted), `DELETE` (a row is deleted), or `UPDATE` (a row is modified).

* `Table`: the table that the trigger is associated with.

* `Statement`: the statement that is executed when the trigger fires.

* `Timing`: specifies whether the trigger fires before or after the trigger event. Valid values: `BEFORE` and `AFTER`.

* `Created`: the date and time when the trigger was created. The type of the value is `TIMESTAMP(2)` (with the fractional part in hundredth seconds).

* `sql_mode`: the SQL mode used when the trigger was created.

* `Definer`: the user that created the trigger, in the format of `'user_name'@'host_name'`.

* `character_set_client`: the value of the `character_set_client` system variable in the current session when the trigger was created.

* `collation_connection`: the value of the `collation_connection` system variable when the trigger was created.

* `Database Collation`: the collation of the database to which the trigger is associated.


You can also obtain the information about a trigger from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA TRIGGERS` table. For more information, see [INFORMATION_SCHEMA TRIGGERS](../800.information-schema-dictionary-view-mysql/300.information-schema-triggers-mysql.md).

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SHOW TRIGGERS LIKE 'test_trg%'\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************

             Trigger: test_trg
               Event: UPDATE
               Table: test
           Statement: TRIGGER test_trg BEFORE UPDATE ON test
                      FOR EACH ROW
                      BEGIN
                      IF NEW.user_num < 1 THEN
                      SET NEW.user_num  = 1;
                      ELSEIF NEW.user_num > 45 THEN
                      SET NEW.user_num= 45;
                      END IF;
                      END
              Timing: BEFORE
             Created: 2022-05-18 18:07:51.994639
            sql_mode: STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,STRICT_ALL_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE
             Definer: 'root'@'%'
character_set_client: utf8mb4
collation_connection: utf8mb4
  Database Collation: utf8mb4
```
