# ob_admin overview

ob_admin is an O&M tool for OceanBase Database. This topic describes the installation procedure and features of ob_admin.

## Installation procedure

You can compile ob_admin based on the source code of OceanBase Database.

1. Clone the open source code of [OceanBase Database](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase) to your local server.

2. Run the following commands in the `oceanbase` directory to compile ob_admin:

   ```bash
   sh build.sh rpm --init

   cd build_rpm

   make ob_admin
   ```

## Features

ob_admin provides the slog_tool, clog_tool, dumpsst, and dump_backup features to check for issues such as data inconsistency, data loss, and data errors. The following sections describe these features respectively.

### slog_tool

slog_tool displays the content of slog files. Syntax:

```bash
$./ob_admin slog_tool -f ../store/slog/1
```

> **Note**
>
> The path in the slog_tool command must begin with a period (.) or slash (/).

### clog_tool

clog_tool has the following features:

* Provide content of the `dump clog` files.
* Measure the proportion of each module in the clog files.
* Search for logs by a specified field.

For more information, see [clog_tool](300.clog/300.clog_tool.md).

### dumpsst

dumpsst displays the content `block_file`, such as superblocks, macroblocks, macroblock meta, sstable, and sstable meta. Generally, you can use it to trace online issues and locate data issues. For more information, see [dumpsst](../200.ob-admin/500.dumpsst.md).

### dump_backup

dump_backup parses the data content for physical backup. For more information, see [dump_backup](../200.ob-admin/600.dump_backup.md).

> **Note**
>
> ob_admin specifies the log printing level by using the `OB_ADMIN_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable, which can be set to DEBUG, TRACE, INFO, WARNING, or ERROR.
