# Configure user-level resource isolation

You can bind the SQL statements executed by a specific user to a specified resource group to implement user-level resource isolation. This topic describes how to configure user-level resource isolation in Oracle mode.

## Prerequisites

* Before you configure user-level resource isolation, we recommend that you learn about basic concepts such as resource group, resource management plan, and resource management plan config. For more information, see [Overview](../100.resource-isolation-overview.md).

* If you need to implement isolation of CPU resources, make sure that the control group (cgroup) directory is configured and the cgroup feature is enabled. This is because the isolation of CPU resources depends on cgroups. For more information, see [Configure cgroups](../200.resource-isolation-of-oracle-mode/100.config-cgroups-of-oracle-mode.md).

   If you need to implement only isolation of input/output operations per second (IOPS) resources, you do not need to configure cgroups.

* Before you perform IOPS resource isolation, you must calibrate the disk performance. For more information about how to perform disk performance calibration, see [Calibrate the disk performance](../200.resource-isolation-of-oracle-mode/200.1.disk-performance-calibration-of-oracle-mode.md).

   If you need to only perform CPU resource isolation, you do not need to calibrate the disk performance.

* The user for which resource isolation is to be implemented has been created. For more information, see [Create a user](../../../../500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/300.permission-of-oracle-mode/100.create-a-user-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Background information

User-level resource isolation is further categorized into user-based resource isolation and function-based resource isolation. For more information, see [Overview](../100.resource-isolation-overview.md).

## Procedure

The following example shows how to respectively bind the `tp_user` and `ap_user` users or the `ha_high` and `ddl_high` tasks to the `big_group` and `small_group` resource groups, and control the CPU and IOPS resources available for the users or backend tasks by using the `plan_a` resource management plan.

1. Log on to an Oracle tenant in the cluster as the administrator of the tenant.

2. Call the `CREATE_CONSUMER_GROUP` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to create two resource groups.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> delimiter //

   obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.CREATE_CONSUMER_GROUP(
   consumer_group => 'big_group' ,
   COMMENT => 'TP'
   );
   END; //

   obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.CREATE_CONSUMER_GROUP(
   consumer_group => 'small_group' ,
   COMMENT => 'AP'
   );
   END; //
   ```

   The parameters are described as follows:

   * `CONSUMER_GROUP`: the name of the resource group.

   * `COMMENT`: the comments on the resource group.

   You can query the `DBA_RSRC_CONSUMER_GROUPS` view to verify whether the resource groups are created. For more information about the `DBA_RSRC_CONSUMER_GROUPS` view, see [DBA_RSRC_CONSUMER_GROUPS](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/500.system-view-of-oracle-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-oracle-mode/12200.dba_rsrc_consumer_groups-of-oracle-mode.md).

3. Call the `CREATE_PLAN` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to create a resource management plan.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.CREATE_PLAN(
   PLAN => 'plan_a');
   END; //
   ```

   The parameters are described as follows:

   * `PLAN`: the name of the resource management plan.

   * `COMMENT`: the comments on the resource management plan.

   You can query the `DBA_RSRC_PLANS` view to verify whether the resource management plan is created. For more information about the `DBA_RSRC_PLANS` view, see [DBA_RSRC_PLANS](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/500.system-view-of-oracle-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-oracle-mode/12400.dba_rsrc_plans-of-oracle-mode.md).

4. Call the `CREATE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to create a resource management plan config for the resource management plan. When the resource management plan is enabled, the resource management plan config limits the CPU and IOPS resources available for the resource group.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.CREATE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE(
   PLAN => 'plan_a',
   GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN => 'big_group',
   COMMENT  => 'TP preferred',
   MGMT_P1 => 90,
   UTILIZATION_LIMIT =>60,
   MIN_IOPS => 20,
   MAX_IOPS => 100,
   WEIGHT_IOPS => 20);
   END; //

   obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.CREATE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE(
   PLAN => 'plan_a',
   GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN => 'small_group' ,
   COMMENT  => 'AP preferred',
   MGMT_P1 => 100,
   UTILIZATION_LIMIT =>40,
   MIN_IOPS => 10,
   MAX_IOPS => 90,
   WEIGHT_IOPS => 30);
   END; //
   ```

   The parameters are described as follows:

   * `PLAN`: the name of the resource management plan with which the resource management plan config is associated.

   * `GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN`: the resource group.

   * `COMMENT`: the comments on the resource management plan config. Default value: `NULL`.

   * `MGMT_P1`: the percentage of CPU resources available for the resource group when the system runs at full load. Default value: `100`.

   * `UTILIZATION_LIMIT`: the upper limit on the CPU resources available for the resource group. The default value is `100`. The value range is [0, 100]. The value `100` indicates that all CPU resources of the tenant are available for the resource group. The value `40` indicates that at most 40% of the CPU resources of the tenant are available for the resource group.

   * `MIN_IOPS`: the IOPS resources reserved for the resource group in the case of I/O resource contention. The sum of `MIN_IOPS` values of all resource groups cannot exceed 100. Default value: `0`.

   * `MAX_IOPS`: the maximum IOPS resources available for the resource group. The sum of `MAX_IOPS` values of all resource groups can exceed 100. Default value: `100`.

   * `WEIGHT_IOPS`: the weight for IOPS resources. The sum of `WEIGHT_IOPS` values of all resource groups can exceed 100. Default value: `0`.

   You can query the `DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` or `DBA_OB_RSRC_IO_DIRECTIVES` view to verify whether the resource management plan config is created.

   For more information about the `DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view, see [DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/500.system-view-of-oracle-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-oracle-mode/12500.dba_rsrc_plan_directives-of-oracle-mode.md).

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_RSRC_IO_DIRECTIVES` view, see [DBA_OB_RSRC_IO_DIRECTIVES](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/500.system-view-of-oracle-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-oracle-mode/28000.dba_ob_rsrc_io_directives-oracle.md).

5. Call the `SET_CONSUMER_GROUP_MAPPING` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to create a matching rule for user-level resource isolation based on the actual scenario.

   * Create a matching rule for user-level user-based resource isolation.

      ```sql
      obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.SET_CONSUMER_GROUP_MAPPING(
      ATTRIBUTE => 'user',
      VALUE => 'tp_user',
      CONSUMER_GROUP => 'big_group');
      END; //

      obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.SET_CONSUMER_GROUP_MAPPING(
      ATTRIBUTE => 'user',
      VALUE => 'ap_user',
      CONSUMER_GROUP => 'small_group');
      END; //

      obclient [SYS]>delimiter ;
      ```

      The parameters are described as follows:

      * `ATTRIBUTE`: the attribute type. The value `column` indicates SQL statement-level resource isolation. The value `user` indicates user-level user-based resource isolation. The value `function` indicates user-level function-based resource isolation. The attribute name is case-insensitive.

      * `VALUE`: the attribute value, which is a username. At present, you can specify only one username.

         In the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, the username will be automatically converted to uppercase after a statement is executed. You can enclose the username with double quotation marks to prevent it from being converted to uppercase. Here is an example:

         ```sql
         obclient [SYS]> DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.SET_CONSUMER_GROUP_MAPPING(
         ATTRIBUTE       =>  'user',
         VALUE            => '"user1"'
         CONSUMER_GROUP   => 'big_group');
         ```

      * `CONSUMER_GROUP`: the resource group to bind. When an SQL statement hits the matching rule specified by the `VALUE` parameter, this statement is bound to the specified resource group for execution. At present, an SQL statement can be bound to only one resource group.

   * Create a matching rule for user-level function-based resource isolation.

      ```sql
      obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.SET_CONSUMER_GROUP_MAPPING(
      ATTRIBUTE => 'function',
      VALUE => 'ha_high',
      CONSUMER_GROUP => 'big_group');
      END; //

      obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.SET_CONSUMER_GROUP_MAPPING(
      ATTRIBUTE => 'function',
      VALUE => 'ddl_high',
      CONSUMER_GROUP => 'small_group');
      END; //

      obclient [SYS]>delimiter ;
      ```

      The parameters are described as follows:

      * `ATTRIBUTE`: the attribute type. The value `column` indicates SQL statement-level resource isolation. The value `user` indicates user-level user-based resource isolation. The value `function` indicates user-level function-based resource isolation. The attribute name is case-insensitive.

      * `VALUE`: the attribute value, which can be any of the following eight types of backend tasks of the directed acyclic graph (DAG) thread: compaction_high, ha_high, compaction_mid, ha_mid, compaction_low, ha_low, ddl, and ddl_high. At present, you can specify only one task.

      * `CONSUMER_GROUP`: the resource group to bind. When an SQL statement hits the matching rule specified by the `VALUE` parameter, this statement is bound to the specified resource group for execution. At present, an SQL statement can be bound to only one resource group.

   You can query the `DBA_RSRC_GROUP_MAPPINGS` view to verify whether the matching rule is created. For more information about `DBA_RSRC_GROUP_MAPPINGS`, see [DBA_RSRC_GROUP_MAPPINGS](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/500.system-view-of-oracle-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-oracle-mode/12300.dba_rsrc_group_mappings-of-oracle-mode.md).

6. Enable a proper resource management plan for a resource group.

   The resources available for a resource group vary based on the resource management plan. Therefore, you must enable a proper resource management plan for a resource group.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> ALTER SYSTEM SET resource_manager_plan = 'plan_a';
   ```

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>If resource usage does not need to be limited, you can execute the <code>ALTER SYSTEM SET resource_manager_plan = '';</code> statement to disable all resource management plans. </p>
   </main>

## Considerations

* After a matching rule for resource isolation is added, if you delete the user and create the user again, this matching rule still applies.

* A matching rule for resource isolation does not take effect immediately after being added, but is expected to take effect within 10 seconds. The time may vary based on the actual environment.

* User-level resource isolation has a lower priority than SQL statement-level resource isolation.

* After a matching rule for resource isolation is added, it takes effect only in the `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` statements, and does not take effect in data definition language (DDL), data control language (DCL), or procedural language (PL) statements. It can take effect in prepared statements.

## Impact on performance

After user-level resource isolation is enabled, the resource group used for executing an SQL statement is determined before the SQL statement is parsed. Therefore, the performance is not affected after user-level resource isolation is configured.

## References

[Configure SQL statement-level resource isolation](../200.resource-isolation-of-oracle-mode/300.resource-isolation-at-sql-level-of-oracle-mode.md)
