# Delete a resource management plan config

Deleting a resource management plan config means removing the CPU resource limits for the resource group in the resource management plan. You can use the `DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to accomplish this.

## Prerequisites

Before deleting a resource management plan config, make sure that the corresponding resource management plan and resource group exist. Otherwise, the deletion may fail.

## Procedure

1. Log in to an Oracle tenant of the cluster using the administrator.

2. Call the `DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to delete the resource management plan config.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> delimiter //

   obclient [SYS]> BEGIN DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE(
   PLAN => 'plan_a',
   GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN => 'small_group'
   );
   END ;//

   obclient [SYS]> delimiter ;
   ```

   Here, `PLAN` specifies the resource management plan, and `GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN` specifies the bound resource group.

   In this example, after the CPU resource limits for the `small_group` resource group are removed, SQL statements that were previously using the resources in the `small_group` resource group will now use the resources in the default resource group `OTHER_GROUP`.

3. Query the `DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view to verify whether the resource management plan config has been deleted.

   ```sql
   obclient [SYS]> SELECT PLAN, GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN FROM DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES;
   +--------+------------------+
   | PLAN   | GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN |
   +--------+------------------+
   | PLAN_B | GROUP1           |
   +--------+------------------+
   1 rows in set
   ```

   For more information about the `DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view, see [DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/500.system-view-of-oracle-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-oracle-mode/12500.dba_rsrc_plan_directives-of-oracle-mode.md).

## References

[DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/300.pl-reference/300.pl-oracle/1400.pl-system-package-oracle/13300.dbms-resource-manager-oracle/700.delete-plan-directive-oracle.md)
