# Delete a plan directive

To delete a plan directive means to delete the limit on the CPU resources available for the resource group in the resource management plan. You can call the `DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to delete a plan directive.

## Prerequisites

The resource management plan and resource group configured in the plan directive exist. Otherwise, an error occurs when you delete the plan directive.

## Procedure

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of the cluster as the administrator of the tenant.

2. You can call the `DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to delete a plan directive.

   ```sql
   obclient [test]> CALL DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE(
   PLAN => 'daytime',
   GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN => 'interactive_group'
   );
   ```

   `PLAN` specifies the name of the resource management plan, and `GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN` specifies the bound resource group.

   In this example, after the limit on the resources available for the `interactive_group` resource group is deleted, the SQL statements that originally use the resources in the `interactive_group` resource group will use the resources in the default resource group `OTHER_GROUP`.

3. Query the `oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view to verify whether the plan directive is deleted.

   ```sql
   obclient [test]> SELECT PLAN, GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN FROM oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES;
   +---------+------------------+
   | PLAN    | GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN |
   +---------+------------------+
   | DAY     | group1           |
   | daytime | batch_group      |
   +---------+------------------+
   2 rows in set
   ```

   For more information about the `oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view, see [oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES](../../../../5.system-reference/4.system-view-of-mysql-mode/2.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/206.oceanbase-dba_rsrc_plan_directives.md).

## References

[DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE](../../../../4.development-reference/3.pl-reference/2.pl-mysql/10.pl-system-package-mysql/133.dbms-resource-manager-mysql/7.delete-plan-directive-mysql.md)
