# Connect Python applications to OceanBase Database

This topic describes how to connect Python applications to OceanBase Database by using OceanBase Connector/J and provides sample code.

## Prerequisites

* A basic database development environment is deployed.

* You have installed or upgraded to JDK 8 on your computer.

* The Python environment on your computer is version 3.6.8.

* You have obtained the installation package of the OceanBase Connector/J driver from OceanBase Technical Support.

## Procedure

1. Install JayDeBeApi. We recommend that you install JayDeBeApi with pip. For more information, see [Install JayDeBeApi with pip](https://pypi.org/project/JayDeBeApi/).

   ```shell
   // Install JayDeBeApi of Python 3.
   pip3 install JayDeBeApi
   ```

2. Place the JAR installation package of OceanBase Connection/J in the current directory.

3. Establish a connection with OceanBase Database. The following sample code takes test.py as an example.

   ```python
   #!/usr/bin/env python3.6
   # -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
   encoding = "utf8"
   import jaydebeapi
   def ob_test():   
           url = 'jdbc:oceanbase://host:port'
           user = 's**@oracle'
           password = '**1***'
           driver = 'com.alipay.oceanbase.jdbc.Driver'
           jarFile = './oceanbase-client-2.2.3.jar'
           sqlStr = 'select * from test_python'  
           # conn=jaydebeapi.connect('oracle.jdbc.driver.OracleDriver','jdbc:oracle:thin:@10.0.0.0:1521/orcl',['hwf_model','hwf_model'],'E:/pycharm/lib/ojdbc14.jar')
           conn = jaydebeapi.connect(driver, url, [user, password], jarFile)
           curs = conn.cursor()
           curs.execute(sqlStr)
           result = curs.fetchall()
           print(result)
           curs.close()
           conn.close()
   ob_test()
   ```

   Parameters

   * **url**: `jdbc:oceanbase://IP:port/?pool=false`. Specifies the IP address and port for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an OBProxy.

   * **user**: the username for connecting to the tenant, in the `username@tenant name` format. In Oracle mode, the default username of the administrator is `SYS`.

      > **Note**
      >
      > In a private cloud or standalone deployment scenario, the format of the `username` is `String username` = "username@tenant#cluster".

   * **password**: specifies the password of the account.

   * **driver**: specifies the class path, which does not need to be modified.

   * **jarFile**: specifies the path of the JAR installation package.

   * **sqlStr**: specifies the SQL statement, which can be changed as needed.

4. After you write the script, run it. If query data is returned normally, you have connected to the database.

   ```shell
   python3 test.py
   ```

For more information about how to use OceanBase Connector/J, see [OceanBase Connector/J](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise/oceanbase-connector-j-cn).
