About types of column constraints 
======================================================



To ensure that the data in the table conforms to the business rules, you can define constraints at the column level. 

The constraints limit the type of values that can be stored in a column. If you attempt to enter or update a value that does not satisfy the constraint on the corresponding column, an error is returned and the operation is rolled back. Likewise, if you attempt to add a constraint that conflicts with the existing data to a column in an existing table, an error is returned and the operation is rolled back. 

The types of constraints include:

* NOT NULL constraint: enforces that the constrained column must not contain null values. 

  For example, the NOT NULL constraint on the w_name column in the ware table requires that each warehouse in the column must have a name. For a column with the NOT NULL constraint, you must specify the values in the INSERT statement unless you have defined a default value for the column. For example, if you define a default value 0.99 for the c_discount column in the cust table, the default discounted price is 99% of the original price.
  




<!-- -->

* UNIQUE constraint: enforces that the constrained column must not contain duplicate values, but it can contain multiple null values. 

  For example, the UNIQUE constraint on the (w_name, w_city) column in the ware table enforces that the warehouse names in each city must be unique.
  




<!-- -->

* PRIMARY KEY constraint: It is the combination of the NOT NULL constraint and the UNIQUE constraint. 

  For example, both the ware table and cust table have primary key columns named w_id and c_id, which do not accept NULL or duplicate values.
  




<!-- -->

* FOREIGN KEY constraint: enforces that the constrained column must contain only values from the primary key column of another table. 

  For example, if a FOREIGN KEY constraint on the c_w_id column of the cust table references the w_id column of the ware table, the warehouses allocated to the customers must be warehouses in the ware table. 

  By default, the FOREIGN KEY constraint is enabled. You can set the foreign_key_checks variable to disable this constraint.
  




Default date and time setting for the date and time column 
-------------------------------------------------------------------

We recommend that you specify a default value for a column with the NOT NULL constraint. For a date or time column, you can set the current date or time of the database as the default value. 

* Example: Use the current_timestamp function to set the default value for the date and time column

  




```javascript
obclient> create table t1(
id bigint not null primary KEY
, gmt_create datetime not null default current_timestamp 
, gmt_modified datetime not null default current_timestamp
```


