# Pattern-matching conditions

Pattern-matching conditions compare character data.

Pattern-matching conditions are `LIKE` and `REGEXP_LIKE`.

## LIKE condition

The `LIKE` condition is used for pattern matching. The equality operator (=) indicates that one character value exactly matches another character value. The `LIKE` condition matches a part of a character value with another character value by searching the first value for the pattern specified by the second character value.

The `LIKE` condition uses characters defined in the input character set to calculate strings.

### Syntax

```sql
char1 [NOT] LIKE char2 [ ESCAPE esc_char ]
```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>When the <code>LIKE</code> condition contains a double vertical bar (||), it can be used as a logical OR operator depending on the value of <code>sql_mode</code>.</p>
    <ul>
    <li>When <code>sql_mode</code> does not contain <code>PIPES_AS_CONCAT</code>, <code>||</code> is identified as a logical OR operator. </li>
    <li>When <code>sql_mode</code> contains <code>PIPES_AS_CONCAT</code>, <code>||</code> is identified as a character concatenation operator. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| char1 | A character expression, such as a character column, which is called the search value.  |
| char2 | A character expression, which is usually a literal and called pattern.  |
| esc_char | A character expression, which is usually a literal. `ESCAPE` identifies `esc_char` as an escape character. When an escape character is placed prior to a pattern-matching character, this pattern-matching character is interpreted as a common character.  |

### Considerations

If `esc_char` is not specified, no default escape character is available. If the value of `char1`, `char2`, or `esc_char` is NULL, the result is unknown. Otherwise, the escape character (if any) must be a character string of length 1.

All character expressions (`char1`, `char2`, and `esc_char`) can be of any data type, such as `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, and `NVARCHAR2`. If the character expressions are of different data types, OceanBase Database will convert all of them into the data type of `char1`.

Special pattern-matching characters that the pattern can contain are as follows:

* The underscore (_) exactly matches one character in the value rather than one byte of a multi-byte character set.

* The percent sign (%) matches zero or multiple characters in the value rather than bytes in a multi-byte character set. The pattern "%" cannot match NULL.

* If no wildcard character is detected, `LIKE` can be converted into the equal sign (`=`). For example, `SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE c1 LIKE 'ABC';` is equivalent to "filter("c1"='abc')".

You can use the `ESCAPE` clause to contain actual characters `%` or `_` in a pattern. If an escape character is placed prior to the `%` or `_` character in a pattern, OceanBase Database interprets this character literally, rather than identifying it as a special patter-matching character. You can also search for the escape character itself. For example, if `@` is the escape character, you can search for `@` by using `@@`.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Only ASCII-equivalent underscore (_) and percent sign (%) characters are identified as patter-matching characters. The full-width variants of underscore (_) and percent sign (%) characters in East Asian and Unicode character sets are identified as common characters. </p>
  </main>

In the following example, if `x` [does not] match pattern `y`, `TRUE` is returned. In `y`, the `%` character matches any string with zero or multiple characters, except NULL, and the `_` character matches any single character. Any character, except the percent sign (%) and underscore (_), can follow the `ESCAPE` clause. If a wildcard character is preceded with an escape character, the wildcard character is identified as a literal.

```sql
x [NOT] LIKE y [ESCAPE 'z']
```

### Examples

In the following statement with the `LIKE` condition, the `ESCAPE '\'` clause will interpret the pattern-matching character _ behind `\` in `%A\_B%` as a common character.

```sql
SELECT last_name FROM emp WHERE last_name LIKE '%A\_B%' ESCAPE '\' ORDER BY last_name;
```

## REGEXP_LIKE condition

The `REGEXP_LIKE` condition is used for regular expression matching. It evaluates strings by using the characters defined in the input character set.

### Syntax

```sql
REGEXP_LIKE(source_char, pattern [, match_param ])
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| source_char | A character expression used as the search value. The data type can be `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, `NVARCHAR2`, or `CLOB`.  |
| pattern | A regular expression, which is usually a text literal. The data type can be `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2`.  |
| match_param | A character expression of the `VARCHAR2` or `CHAR` data type that is used to change the default matching behavior of the condition.  |

### Considerations

`pattern` contains a maximum of 512 bytes. If the data type of `pattern` is different from that of `source_char`, OceanBase Database converts the data type of `pattern` into that of `source_char`.

You can specify one or more of the following values for `match_parameter`:

* `'i'`: indicates case-insensitive matching.

* `'c'`: indicates case-sensitive matching.

* `'n'`: indicates allowing the period (.) to match the line feed character. If this option is omitted, the period does not match the line feed character.

* `'m'`: indicates interpreting the source string as multiple lines. OceanBase Database interprets `^` and `$` as the beginning and end of any line in the source string, instead of the beginning and end of the entire source string. If this option is omitted, OceanBase Database identifies the source string as a single line.

* `'x'`: indicates ignoring whitespace characters. By default, a whitespace character matches itself.

If you specify multiple conflicting values for `match_parameter`, OceanBase Database will use the last value. For example, if you specify 'ic' for match_parameter, OceanBase Database uses case-sensitive matching. If you specify other values, an error is returned.

If `match_parameter` is omitted, the following matching rules apply:

* By default, the value of the `NLS_SORT` system variable determines whether case-sensitive matching is adopted.

* The period (.) does not match the line feed character.

* The source string is identified as a single line.

### Examples

Create a table named `emp` and insert data into it.

```sql
CREATE TABLE emp(manager_id INT, first_name VARCHAR(50), last_name VARCHAR(50), hiredate VARCHAR(50),salary INT);
INSERT INTO emp VALUES(300, 'Steven', 'King',  '2019-09-11',23600);     
INSERT INTO emp VALUES(200, 'Steven', 'Markle', '2019-11-05', 23800);
INSERT INTO emp VALUES(100, 'Deven',  'Part',  '2018-10-01',24000);     
INSERT INTO emp VALUES(200, 'Carlos', 'Ross',  '2019-06-11',23500);     
INSERT INTO emp VALUES(200, 'Teven',  'Bell', '2019-05-25', 23000);
INSERT INTO emp VALUES(200, 'Stephen', 'Stiles',  '2018-06-11',24500);    
INSERT INTO emp VALUES(100, 'Ame', 'De Haan', '2018-05-01',11000);      
INSERT INTO emp VALUES(100, 'Jon', 'Errazuriz', '2017-07-21', 1400);   
COMMIT;
```

Query the first name and last name for employees whose first name is `Steven` or `Stephen`. (`first_name` begins with **Ste** and ends with **en**, and **v** or **ph** lies between.)

```sql
obclient> SELECT first_name, last_name FROM emp WHERE REGEXP_LIKE (first_name, '^Ste(v|ph)en$')
ORDER BY first_name, last_name;
+------------+-----------+
| FIRST_NAME | LAST_NAME |
+------------+-----------+
| Stephen    | Stiles    |
| Steven     | King      |
| Steven     | Markle    |
+------------+-----------+
3 rows in set
```

Query the last name for employees whose last name contains a double vowel. (`last_name` contains two adjacent case-insensitive vowels a, e, i, o, or u.)

```sql
obclient> SELECT last_name
     FROM emp
     WHERE REGEXP_LIKE (last_name, '([aeiou])\1', 'i')
     ORDER BY last_name;
+-----------+
| LAST_NAME |
+-----------+
| De Haan   |
+-----------+
1 row in set
```
