|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V2.2.76

## V2.2.76 BP1

### Version information

* Release date: July 15, 2021
* Version: V2.2.76 BP1

### Applicable versions

You can upgrade from V2.2.50, V2.2.51, V2.2.52, V2.2.60, V2.2.70, V2.2.71, V2.2.72, V2.2.73, V2.2.74, and V2.2.75 to this version. 

### Fixed issues

* The MOD SqlTableLocatio has memory leaks. 

* The backup task fails and returns the error code 4018 because the recovery point required by an empty partition group (PG) is overwritten during physical backup and restore. 

* In Oracle mode, the observer process unexpectedly exits if you drop a user and then drop the trigger of the user. 

* The unit32 overflows and causes an infinite loop of threads, which results in full CPU utilization. 

* The existing data of the buffer table cannot be correctly read due to frequent INSERT INTO...DELETE From and Mark as Deleted operations. 

* An error occurs in the execution of the DISTINCT, LIMIT, and OUTER JOIN statements due to SQL rewriting. 

* In Oracle mode, an error occurs because a special character contained in the CHAR type column is smaller than a space. 

* The XA_ROLLBACK function can be hung. 

* In Oracle mode, the parallel execution returns error 4016: dop of child dfo is not right. 

* In Oracle mode, an error occurs during the conversion from the DOUBLE type to the NUMBER type when PS mode is enabled. 

* The observer process unexpectedly exits because the deletion of a partition with a global index triggers an invalid schema pointer. 

### Limitations

* PL debugging is supported only for x86 platforms. We recommend that you do not use this feature on an ARM platform. 

* In MySQL mode, an error may occur if a PL block contains multiple SQL statements. 