|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Views in a database

A view in a database is a virtual table whose content is defined by an SQL query. Like a table, a view consists of rows (that is, records) with the same attributes (that is, columns or fields). However, a view does not exist as a stored set of data values in a database. Instead, the database stores an SQL query that is to be executed when you access a view. A view simplifies complex SQL operations, improves data access security, and provides a way to package data logic.

## Classification

### Standard views

Standard views, also called non-materialized views or just *views*, are the most common ones. A standard view stores only the SQL query that defines the view, but not the query result. When you query a standard view, the database dynamically executes the SQL query that defines the view to retrieve the latest data.

### Materialized views

Unlike standard views, materialized views store the query results in physical storage. A materialized view regularly synchronizes data from its base tables to keep the data up-to-date. Materialized views can greatly optimize the query performance, especially in large data sets involving complex joins and aggregations.

## Benefits

### Simplified queries

Views can package complex queries to simply the queries from applications. You can query views the same way you query normal tables.

### Security and privilege control

Views can control access to data by displaying only data on which a specific user or user group has privileges. This ensures data security and complies with data privacy policies.

### Logical data independence

When the underlying data structure changes, a view provides a unified API so that you do not need to modify the applications relying on the data.

### Data integration

You can use a view to extract data from multiple tables, thus creating a logical representation of data to integrate the data.

## Application scenarios

### Database abstraction layer

In a multi-layer application architecture, views provide a database abstraction layer to simplify application development and maintenance.

### Data security

Views can be used for role-based access control. In this case, only the data important to a role is displayed.

### Complex reporting and analysis

A view can package the logic of a complex reporting and analysis query that summarizes data from multiple tables, to simplify and optimize data retrieval.

### Performance optimization

Materialized views can significantly improve the performance of queries involving complex operations such as aggregations and joins, because data in such views is pre-calculated and stored.

Standard views and materialized views can improve the efficiency and ease of data access while ensuring security and performance.

## References

- [Standard views](150.standard-view-of-oracle-mode/100.standard-view-overview-of-oracle-mode.md)
- [Materialized views](200.materialized-view-of-oracle-mode/100.materialized-view-overview-of-oracle-mode.md)
