# Handle logon failures

If a user fails to log on to OceanBase Database multiple times, OceanBase Database locks the account of the user to prevent malicious password attacks. This improves the security of OceanBase Database.

## Handle logon failures

OceanBase Database allows you to set the threshold for the failed attempts to log on to a MySQL tenant by specifying `connection_control_failed_connections_threshold`, which is a tenant-level parameter. If the number of consecutive failed logon attempts by a user exceeds the specified threshold, the system locks the account of the user.

The default value of the `connection_control_failed_connections_threshold` parameter is `0`, and the value range is \[0,2147483647\].  Parameters:

* A value of `0` indicates that the feature is disabled. In this case, no action is taken against failed logon attempts.

* If you set the parameter to a value other than `0`, the account of a user is locked when the number of failed logon attempts by the user exceeds the specified value. The lock duration is calculated by using the following formula:

   `MIN(MAX((current_failed_login_num + 1 - connection_control_failed_connections_threshold) * 1000, connection_control_min_connection_delay), connection_control_max_connection_delay)`

   Parameters:

   * `current_failed_login_num`: the number of consecutive failed logon attempts by a user. The value of the `current_failed_login_num` parameter is greater than or equal to that of the `connection_control_failed_connections_threshold` parameter.

   * `connection_control_min_connection_delay`: the minimum lock duration in milliseconds after the number of consecutive failed logon attempts exceeds the specified threshold. Value range: \[1000,2147483647\]. Default value: `1000`.

      For more information about the `connection_control_min_connection_delay` parameter, see [connection_control_min_connection_delay](../../../../../5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/4.tenant-level-configuration-items/6.connection_control_min_connection_delay.md).

   * `connection_control_max_connection_delay`: the maximum lock duration in milliseconds after the number of consecutive failed logon attempts exceeds the specified threshold. Value range: \[1000,2147483647\]. Default value: `2147483647`.

      For more information about the `connection_control_max_connection_delay` parameter, see [connection_control_max_connection_delay](../../../../../5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/4.tenant-level-configuration-items/7.connection_control_max_connection_delay.md).

## Configuration example

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of the database as the administrator.

2. Execute the following statements to set the values of the `connection_control_failed_connections_threshold`, `connection_control_min_connection_delay`, and `connection_control_max_connection_delay` parameters:

   Sample code:

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET connection_control_failed_connections_threshold=5;

   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET connection_control_min_connection_delay=60000;

   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET connection_control_max_connection_delay=360000;
   ```

   For more information about the parameters, see [Modify cluster parameters](../../../../../../6.manage/1.cluster-management/3.common-cluster-operations/13.modify-cluster-parameters.md).
