# Overview

This topic describes the error messages for Oracle tenants in OceanBase Database.

* ORA-00000 to ORA-00999

* ORA-01000 to ORA-01499

* ORA-01500 to ORA-01999

* ORA-02000 to ORA-04999

* ORA-05000 to ORA-10000

* ORA-10000 to ORA-19999

* ORA-20000 to ORA-29999

* ORA-30000 to ORA-49999

* ORA-50000 to ORA-99999

* PLS-00000 to PLS-00999

Error messages indicated by the preceding error codes are compatible with those in Oracle databases.

## Format of error messages

For Oracle tenants in OceanBase Database, error messages are returned in the format of prefix+numeric code.

Like in an Oracle database, for an error that originates from the database, an error message prefixed with `ORA` is returned. For an error that originates from a stored procedure, an error message prefixed with `PLS` is returned.

Format of error messages:

```unknow
ORA-<err_num>:<err_msg>
PLS-<err_num>:<err_msg>
```

Parameters

* `err_num`: the error code that is compatible with Oracle databases.

* `err_msg`: the error message.

## Variables in error messages

OceanBase Database integrates parameters into error messages to help you locate and fix errors. These parameters are displayed as percent signs (%).

Examples:

```unknow
ORA-00910: specified length too long for column '%s' (max = %d byte)
```

The preceding error message may appear as the following message:

```unknow
ORA-00910: specified length too long for column 'fruit' (max = 32767 byte)
```

## About ORA-00600

In Oracle databases, `ORA-00600` indicates an internal error, which is a Catchall internal error message for Oracle program exceptions. It indicates that the process encounters a low-level or unexpected error.

In Oracle tenants of OceanBase Database, for errors that are incompatible with Oracle databases, this error code is returned in the following format:

```unknow
ORA-00600: internal error code, arguments: %d, %s
```

`%d` indicates an error code in OceanBase Database, and `%s` indicates the error message in OceanBase Database.

Examples:

```sql
ORA-00600: internal error code, arguments: -5031, Column not found
```
