|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Table scan

This topic describes the requirements and suggestions on writing SQL statements for table scans in OceanBase Database.

* Use a `WHERE` clause in a `SELECT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, or `REPLACE` statement to specify index-based queries. You can execute the `EXPLAIN` statement to check whether the execution plan performs index-based queries.

* Avoid full scans of large tables because index scans show better performance in most queries of large tables. However, a full scan can be performed for a static table with less than 100 rows. You can execute the `EXPLAIN<sql_statement>` statement to view the execution plan of an SQL statement. OceanBase Database allows you to execute the `EXPLAIN` statement in the following three modes:

   * The `EXPLAIN BASIC` statement shows the most basic framework of a plan.

   * The `EXPLAIN EXTENDED` statement extends a plan to its full frame with the most details and is usually used in troubleshooting.

   * The `EXPLAIN` statement shows information that helps you understand the entire execution process of a plan.

* We recommend that you perform full table scans and full table dumps on large tables in a backup database or when you perform data reads in an offline database.

* You cannot perform a query that uses only the `LIKE '%...%'` or `LIKE '%...'` clause. You must specify other query conditions.

* You cannot use a function in the indexed column or the leading column of a combined index in a `WHERE` clause.
