|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Transactions

This topic describes the requirements and suggestions on transactions in OceanBase Database.

* OceanBase Database V3.x does not limit the size of large transactions. However, you must control the concurrency to prevent the drastic increase in memory usage.

   * The number of parameters in the `IN` list of a `WHERE` clause is no longer limited.

   * During the initialization of an OBServer node, write throttling is triggered when the memory usage of the MemStore reaches 80%:

      `alter system set writing_throttling_trigger_percentage = 80 TENANT = ALL;`

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The throttling limits the clog replay speed. This may affect the time when a minor compaction is triggered. </p>
  </main>

* To operate data in batches, the program must be able to suspend the processing and retry failed transactions.

* OceanBase Database commits distributed transactions in two phases. Therefore, failed transactions must be retried and the transaction execution status must be checked.

* Frontend programs cannot use `SET` statements other than the `SET NAMES` statement, such as `SET TIMEZONE`, `SET SQL_MODE`, and `SET ISOLATION_LEVEL`.

* A sequence is useful when you need a unique primary key. A sequence can also provide globally unique and consecutive integers.

* The number of concurrent sessions is limited.

   If a tenant has n CPUs, it usually has up to `10 x n` user sessions that are active at the same time. In this case, each additional concurrent session needs to wait for an available worker thread before being active.

* We recommend that you enable automatic transaction committing by using the `Connection.setAutoCommit(xx)` API instead of executing the `set @@autocommit=xx` statement.

* We recommend that you start transactions by using the `Connection.setAutoCommit(xx)` API instead of executing the `start transaction/begin` statement.

* We recommend that you close transactions by using the `Connection.commit()/Connection.rollback()` API instead of executing the `commit/rollback` statement.
