# Hint

This topic describes the requirements and suggestions on the use of hints in OceanBase Database.

We recommend that you use a hint only after you collect the statistics of the related table and use statements to evaluate the hint-free plan selected by the optimizer. Database condition changes and query performance enhancements in subsequent versions may result in a significant impact of the hints on the performance.

## Overview

* OceanBase Database provides a cost-based optimizer and allows you to use hints in a similar way as in an Oracle database.

* If the server cannot recognize the hints in the SQL statements, the server directly ignores the hints without reporting an error.

* Hints affect only the logic used by the database optimizer to generate plans but not the semantics of the SQL statements.

* The optimizer can use hints to generate specific plans. Generally, a hint is not required because the optimizer selects the best execution plan for a query. In some scenarios, however, the execution plan generated by the optimizer may not meet your requirements. In this case, you can add hints to your query to generate a specific execution plan.

## Syntax

```sql
{DELETE|INSERT|SELECT|UPDATE|REPLACE} /*+ [HINT_text][hin_text]... */
```

* A compound statement can contain only one hint comment, and this comment must follow the `SELECT`, `UPDATE`, `INSERT`, `REPLACE`, or `DELETE` keyword.

* A hint is a special SQL comment in terms of syntax, except that a plus sign (+) is added to the opening tag (/*) of the comment. As a hint is a comment, the optimizer ignores it and uses the default plan, if the server does not recognize hints in the SQL statement. In addition, a hint only affects the logic of the execution plan generated by the optimizer. The semantics of the SQL statement remains unaffected.

* When you specify a hint, note that:

   * OceanBase Database interprets a comment that starts with a plus sign (+) as a hint list. The plus sign must immediately follow the opening tag of the comment, and no space is allowed.

   * A space between the plus sign (+) and the hint text is optional. If a comment contains multiple hints, use a comma (,) or at least one space between two hints.

   * A hint is ignored when it contains spelling or grammatical errors. However, OceanBase Database will consider using other correctly specified hints in the same comment.

   * Hints not following the `DELETE`, `INSERT`, `MERGE`, `SELECT`, or `UPDATE` keyword are invalid.

* Hints in OceanBase Database are not the same as those in Oracle Database.

   * If a `LEADING` hint is used in an Oracle database, but the specified table does not exist, the behavior of the hint is uncertain and depends on specific calculations. As a result, the hint takes effect in some cases and becomes invalid in other cases.

## Examples

* A hint may contain no parameters, for example, `/*+ KAKA */`.

* A hint can contain parameters, for example, `/*+ HAHA(param) */`.

* Multiple hints can be included in the same comment and separated with commas (,) or at least one space, for example, `/*+ KAKA, HAHA(param)*/`.

* The hint in a `SELECT` statement must be placed right after the keyword `SELECT` and before other words, for example, `SELECT /*+ KAKA */`.

* The hint in an `UPDATE` or `DELETE` statement must be placed right after the keyword `UPDATE` or `DELETE`, for example, `UPDATE /*+ KAKA */` and `DELETE /*+ KAKA */`.

## Frequently used hints

| **Hint** | **Parameter** | **Description** |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| NO_REWRITE |                                                       | Indicates not to rewrite the SQL statement.  |
| READ_CONSISTENCY | weak\|strong\|frozen | <ul><li>weak: weak consistency read.</li> <li>strong: strong consistency read. </li> <li>frozen: reads data from the last major freeze.</li> </ul> |
| INDEX_HINT | \[ qb_name \] table_nameindex_name | Specifies the index used during a query on a table.  |
| QUERY_TIMEOUT | int64 | Specifies the statement execution timeout value, in microseconds (μs).  |
| LEADING | \[ qb_name \] table_name \[, table_name \] | Specifies the order in which multiple tables are joined.  |
| ORDERED |                                                       | Specifies that the tables are joined in the order displayed in the SQL statement.  |
| FULL | \[qb_name\] table_name | Specifies a full table scan as the access method (reads the primary key if any).  |
| USE_MERGE | \[qb_name\] table_name \[,table_name\] | Specifies to use the MERGE algorithm for a multi-table join.  |
| USE_NL | \[ qb_name \] table_name \[, table_name\] | Specifies to use the NEST LOOP algorithm for a multi-table join.  |
| USE_BNL | \[qb_name\] table_name \[,table_name\] | Specifies to use the BLOCK NEST LOOP algorithm for a multi-table join.  |
| USE_HASH_AGGREGATION | \[ qb_name\] | Specifies to use the HASH AGGREGATE method, such as HASH GROUP BY and HASH DISTINCT, as the aggregate method.  |
| NO_USE_HASH_AGGREGATION | \[ qb_name \] | Specifies to use the MERGE GROUP BY and MERGE DISTINCT methods for aggregate, instead of HASH AGGREGATE.  |
| QB_NAME | \[ qb_name\] | Specifies the name of the query block.  |
| PARALLEL | int64 | Specifies the degree of parallelism (DOP) of distributed execution.  |

For more information, see [SQL tuning](../../../1000.performance-tuning-guide/500.sql-optimization/400.sql-optimization/100.overview-of-sql-optimization.md). 
