|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# DML statements

DML statements access and manipulate data in existing schema objects.

DDL statements change database structures, whereas DML statements query or modify data in schema objects. For example, the `ALTER TABLE` statement changes a table schema, whereas the `INSERT` statement inserts one or more rows into a table.

DML statements are the most frequently used SQL statements. You can use them to perform the following operations:

* Use the `SELECT` statement to query data in one or more tables or views.

* Use the `INSERT` statement to insert values or query results into a table or view.

* Use the `UPDATE` statement to change column values in an existing row of a table or view.

* Use the `MERGE` statement to update or insert a row into a table or a view based on the specified conditions.

* Use the `DELETE` statement to remove rows from a table.

* Use the `EXPLAIN` statement to view the execution plan for an SQL statement.

The following example uses DML statements to query the `customer` table, insert a row into the table, update the row, and then delete the row.

```sql
SELECT * FROM customer;
INSERT INTO customer VALUES(1234, 'Tom', 'Jacy');
UPDATE customer SET cust_name = 'Tomy' WHERE cust_id = 11;
DELETE customer WHERE cust_id = 11;
```

A transaction is a set of DML statements that make up a logical work unit. Unlike DDL statements, DML statements do not cause an implicit commit.

The following example helps you better understand what a transaction is: If money is transferred from Account A to Account B, three operations are involved. First, the balance in Account A decreases. Second, the balance in Account B increases. Third, the transfer is recorded in the transfer history tables of the accounts. These three operations can be collectively called a transaction.
