| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Create a pipelined table function


A pipelined table function must be a standalone function or a package function. This topic describes how to create a pipelined table function.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Main syntaxes
-------------------------

For more information, see [CREATE FUNCTION](../../1100.ddl-operations-on-stored-pl-units-oracle/700.create-function-oracle.md).
The syntax of `pipelined_clause` is as follows:

```sql
PIPELINED
{ [ USING [schema.] implementation_type ]
| { ROW | TABLE } POLYMORPHIC [ USING [schema.] implementation_package ]
}
```



The syntax of `PIPE ROW` is as follows:

```sql
PIPE ROW ( row ) ;
```



The syntax of `parallel_enable_clause` is as follows:

```sql
PARALLEL_ENABLE
[ (PARTITION argument BY
    { ANY
    | { HASH | RANGE } (column [, column ]...) [ streaming_clause ]
    | VALUE (column)
    }
  )
```



The syntax of `return_statement` is as follows:

```sql
RETURN [ expression ] ;
```



Syntax description
-------------------------

* If the pipelined table function is a standalone function, specify the `PIPELINED` option in the `CREATE FUNCTION` statement. If the pipelined table function is a package function, specify the `PIPELINED` option in both the function declaration and the function definition.



* We recommend that you specify the `PARALLEL_ENABLE` option to enable the pipelined table function for parallel execution.



* If the pipelined table function executes DML statements, specify the `PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION;` option to make the function autonomous. Then each instance of the function creates a separate transaction during parallel execution.



* Calling a pipelined table function multiple times in one query or in separate queries results in multiple executions of the underlying implementation. If the function is deterministic, specify the `DETERMINISTIC` option.



* A pipelined table function usually has one or more cursor variables. For more information about cursor variables, see [Cursor variables](../../500.pl-static-sql-oracle/200.cursor-oracle/500.cursor-variable-oracle.md).



* In a pipelined table function, the `PIPE ROW` statement returns collection elements to the caller without returning the right of control.



* Each execution path in the function must point to a `RETURN` statement that returns the right of control to the caller. However, the `RETURN` statement does not need to return values to the caller.






Data types of return values
----------------------------

The return value of a pipelined table function must be a collection defined in the schema or package, and cannot be an associative array.  Elements of a collection must be of SQL data types, but not data types supported only by PL, such as the `PLS_INTEGER` and `BOOLEAN` data types.

You can use SQL data types `ANYTYPE` and `ANYDATA` to dynamically encapsulate and access descriptions, data instances, and data instance sets of any other SQL data types (including objects and collections).

Examples
-----------------------

```sql
obclient> CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE pkg_pi AUTHID DEFINER AS
        TYPE numset_tbl IS TABLE OF NUMBER;
        FUNCTION fuc(n NUMBER) RETURN numset_tbl PIPELINED;
      END pkg_pi;
      /
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE BODY pkg_pi AS
        FUNCTION fuc(n NUMBER) RETURN numset_tbl PIPELINED IS
        BEGIN
          FOR i IN 1..n LOOP
            PIPE ROW(i);
          END LOOP;
          RETURN;
        END fuc;
      END pkg_pi;
      /
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> SELECT * FROM TABLE(pkg_pi.fuc(6));
+--------------+
| COLUMN_VALUE |
+--------------+
|            1 |
|            2 |
|            3 |
|            4 |
|            5 |
|            6 |
+--------------+
5 rows in set

obclient> SELECT * FROM TABLE(pkg_pi.fuc(3));
+--------------+
| COLUMN_VALUE |
+--------------+
|            1 |
|            2 |
|            3 |
+--------------+
2 rows in set
```


