| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Application

Pipelined table functions can be used to convert data, and data transfer between pipelined table functions is supported.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Convert data by using a pipelined table function
-------------------------------

A pipelined table function with cursor variables can receive any arguments just like a regular function. You can specify cursor variables in a pipelined table function to obtain input rows and use the `PIPE ROW` statement to transmit the converted one or more rows to the caller. If the `FETCH` and `PIPE ROW` statements are contained in the `LOOP` statement, the function can convert multiple input rows.

Transfer data between pipelined table functions
------------------------------

The cursor variable arguments of a pipelined table function can be cursor variables or `CURSOR` expressions. The function is more efficient with CURSOR expressions. If the `SELECT` statement passes a `CURSOR` expression to the function, the referenced cursor is opened when the function is started and is closed when the function is completed.

Obtain the result of a pipelined table function
-----------------------------

You can associate a named cursor with the query that calls a pipelined table function to obtain the results of the function. Such cursors have no special acquisition semantics, and cursor variables have no special assignment semantics.

When a pipelined table function acts as an aggregate function, it accepts a set of input rows and returns a single result. You can use the `SELECT` statement to select the function result.

Perform DML operations on the result of a pipelined table function
------------------------------------

The "table" returned by a pipelined table function cannot be the target table in a `DELETE`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `MERGE` statement.  However, you can create a view for the table and create an `INSTEAD OF` trigger in the view. For more information about the `INSTEAD OF` trigger, see [CREATE TRIGGER](../../1100.ddl-operations-on-stored-pl-units-oracle/1100.create-trigger-oracle.md).
