| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | Oracle Mode |

# Overview

The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database supports role management.

In Oracle mode, a role is a combination of system and object privileges. By using roles, you can easily manage user privileges.

Roles have the following characteristics:

* Roles can be granted system or object privileges.

* Roles can be granted other roles, that is, roles can include other roles.

* A user can be granted multiple roles, and a role can also be granted to multiple users.

Currently, OceanBase Database has the following system roles by default:

* `CONNECT` role

   This role provides the `CREATE SESSION` privilege, which is a system privilege. To grant the `CREATE SESSION` privilege to a user, you can grant this privilege directly or grant the `CONNECT` role to the user.

* `RESOURCE` role

   This role provides the following system privileges: `CREATE CLUSTER`, `CREATE INDEXTYPE`, `CREATE OPERATOR`, `CREATE PROCEDURE`, `CREATE SEQUENCE`, `CREATE TABLE`, `CREATE TRIGGER`, and `CREATE TYPE`.

   You can view the privileges included in this role by querying the `DBA_SYS_PRIVS` dictionary view.

* `DBA` role

   This role is powerful and provides a large number of system privileges, such as `DELETE ANY TABLE` and `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE`.

   You can view the privileges included in this role by querying the `DBA_SYS_PRIVS` dictionary view.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>To ensure database security, grant this role only when necessary. </p>
  </main>

* `PUBLIC` role

   This role applies to all users in a tenant. By default, no privilege is granted to this role.

   If you grant a privilege to the `PUBLIC` role, all users in the tenant have the privilege. This means that all users can immediately perform operations that are authorized by the privilege.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>To ensure database security, only grant a privilege to this role when it is necessary. </p>
  </main>

* `STANDBY_REPLICATION` role

   This role applies to network-based physical standby database scenarios. You can grant this role to a user dedicated for accessing views in the primary tenant. This way, related information in the primary tenant can be accessed from a standby tenant during synchronization.

   By default, this role has the `CREATE SESSION` system privilege and the privilege to query the following views:

   * GV$OB_LOG_STAT
   * GV$OB_UNITS
   * GV$OB_PARAMETERS
   * DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT
   * DBA_OB_TENANTS
   * DBA_OB_LS
   * DBA_OB_LS_HISTORY
   
   To view the privileges of the role, query the `DBA_SYS_PRIVS` dictionary view.

## References

For more information about how to manage roles, see the following topics:

* [Create a role](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/200.create-a-role-for-oracle-tenant-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [Grant a role to another role](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/300.grant-a-role-to-a-role-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [Grant a role to a user](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/400.grant-a-role-to-a-user-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [Activate or deactivate roles for a user](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/500.specify-an-active-or-inactive-role-for-the-user-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [View roles](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/600.view-roles-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [Modify a role](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/700.modify-a-role-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [Revoke a role](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/800.revoke-role-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [Drop a role](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/900.delete-a-role-of-oracle-mode.md)