|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Modify a role

You can grant privileges to or revoke privileges from a role.

## Grant privileges to a role

### Prerequisites

You have the privileges to be granted and the `GRANT OPTION`, `GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE`, or `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE` privilege.

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../600.view-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). If you do not have the required privilege, contact the administrator. For more information about how to grant privileges to a user, see [Modify user privileges](../700.modify-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). For more information about how to view your roles, see [View roles](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/600.view-roles-of-oracle-mode.md).

### Syntax and examples

The syntax for granting object privileges to a role is as follows:

```sql
GRANT obj_privilege ON obj_clause TO role_name;

obj_clause:
    relation_name
  | relation_name '.' relation_name
```

The syntax for granting system privileges to a role is as follows:

```sql
GRANT {system_privilege | ALL PRIVILEGES}
    TO role_name [WITH ADMID OPTION];
```

where

* `obj_privilege` specifies the object privileges to be granted. When you grant multiple privileges to a user, the privileges must be separated with commas (,).

   For more information about the object privilege types supported in Oracle mode, see [Privilege types in Oracle mode](../000.permission-classification-of-oracle-mode.md).

* `obj_clause` specifies the objects related to the object privileges to be granted.

* `system_privilege` specifies the system privileges to be granted. When you grant multiple privileges to a user, the privileges must be separated with commas (,).

   For more information about the system privilege types supported in Oracle mode, see [Privilege types in Oracle mode](../000.permission-classification-of-oracle-mode.md).

* `WITH ADMIN OPTION` specifies that the granted privilege can be granted to other users, and privilege revocation does not extend to other users..

Here is an example:

Grant the `role1` role the `SELECT` privilege on the `test1.tbl1` table.

```sql
obclient> GRANT SELECT ON test1.tbl1 TO role1;
```

You can also add privileges to the `PUBLIC` role by using the following SQL statement:

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>To ensure database security, grant this role only when necessary. </p>
  </main>

```sql
obclient> GRANT [privilege_list] TO PUBLIC;
```

After you add a privilege to the PUBLIC role, all users in the tenant have the privilege. This means that all users can immediately perform operations that are authorized by the privilege. For more information about the `PUBLIC` role, see [Overview](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/100.roles-of-oracle-mode.md).

For more information about the `GRANT` statement, see [GRANT](../../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/300.dcl-of-oracle-mode/1700.grant-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Revoke privileges from a role

### Prerequisites

You have the privileges or roles to be revoked and any of the following privileges: `GRANT OPTION`, `GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE`, `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE`, and `GRANT ANY ROLE`.

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../600.view-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). If you do not have the required privilege, contact the administrator to obtain the privilege. For more information about how to grant privileges to a user, see [Modify user privileges](../700.modify-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). For more information about how to view your roles, see [View roles](../400.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/600.view-roles-of-oracle-mode.md).

### Syntax and examples

The syntax for revoking object privileges from a role is as follows:

```sql
REVOKE obj_privilege ON obj_clause FROM role_name;

obj_clause:
    relation_name
  | relation_name '.' relation_name
```

The syntax for revoking system privileges from a role is as follows:

```sql
REVOKE {system_privilege | ALL PRIVILEGES}
    FROM role_name;
```

where

* `obj_privilege` specifies the object privileges to be revoked. When you revoke multiple privileges from a user at a time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* `obj_clause` specifies the objects related to the object privileges to be revoked.

* `system_privilege` specifies the system privileges to be revoked. When you revoke multiple privileges from a user at a time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

The following example shows how to revoke the `CREATE SESSION` system privilege from the `role1` role:

```sql
REVOKE CREATE SESSION FROM role1;
```

## References

* [GRANT](../../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/300.dcl-of-oracle-mode/1700.grant-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [REVOKE](../../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/300.dcl-of-oracle-mode/2900.revoke-of-oracle-mode.md)
