| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# RAND

## Syntax

```sql
RAND([N])
```

## Purpose

`RAND([N])` accepts zero or one argument (`N` is called the random number seed) and returns a random floating-point number within the range of \[0, 1.0). To obtain a random integer in the range of \[i, j), use the `FLOOR(I + RAND() * (j - i))` expression.

If the argument `N` is not specified, random number seed initialization is performed before the function is executed. Then, `RAND()` generates a random number based on this initial value. `RAND()` generates a different random number sequence each time.

If the argument `N` is specified, `N` is used as a seed to generate random numbers. Random values are generated based on whether `N` is a constant:

* If `N` is a constant, `N` it is initialized as a random number seed before execution. Then, `RAND(N)` generates a random number based on this initial value. The same `N` value will generate the same random number sequence.

* If `N` is a variable (for example, a column value), `N` is used as a random number seed to generate random numbers in each execution. The same `N` value will generate the same random number.

In addition to the `SELECT` statement, `RAND([N])` is also used in the `WHERE`, `ORDER BY`, and `GROUP BY` clauses, and is executed based on the preceding rules. For example, if you want to sort rows of a table by a random number, you can execute the `SELECT FROM T1 ORDER BY RAND()` statement. If you want to randomly sample 100 rows from a table, you can execute the `SELECT FROM T1 ORDER BY RAND() LIMIT 100` statement.

## Examples

```sql
obclient> SELECT A, B, RAND() FROM T3;
+------+------+---------------------+
| A    | B    | RAND()              |
+------+------+---------------------+
|    1 |    1 |   0.641815407799385 |
|    2 |    2 | 0.16825051248841966 |
|    3 |    3 |  0.9158063697775886 |
+------+------+---------------------+
3 rows in set
```
