# CASE

You can use the `CASE` statement to build a complex conditional statement.

The `CASE` statement supports two syntaxes:

```sql
CASE case_value
    WHEN when_value THEN statement_list
    [WHEN when_value THEN statement_list] ...
    [ELSE statement_list]
END CASE


CASE
    WHEN search_condition THEN statement_list
    [WHEN search_condition THEN statement_list] ...
    [ELSE statement_list]
END CASE
```


Note that the `CASE` operator is different from the `CASE` statement. The `CASE` statement cannot contain the `ELSE NULL` clause, and must end with `END CASE`.

For the first syntax, `case_value` is an expression. It is compared with the `when_value` expression in each `WHEN` clause to find an equal value. When a value equal to `when_value` is found, the `statement_list` statement in the `THEN` clause is executed. If no value is equal to `when_value`, the `statement_list` statement (if any) in the `ELSE` clause is executed. You cannot use this syntax to test the equality with `NULL`. This is because `NULL=NULL` means `False`.

For the second syntax, the `search_condition` expression of each `WHEN` clause is evaluated until the result of an expression is `True`. Then, the `statement_list` statement in the `THEN` clause is executed. If no `search_condition` expression has the value `True`, the `statement_list` statement (if any) in the `ELSE` clause is executed.

If no value is equal to `when_value` or no `search_condition` expression has the value `True`, and the `CASE` statement does not contain the `ELSE` clause, the error "Case not found for CASE statement" is returned.

Each `statement_list` consists of one or more SQL statements and must not be empty.

If no value matches the `WHEN` clause, use an `ELSE` clause with an empty `BEGIN ... END` block, as shown in the following example:

```sql
obclient> DELIMITER //

obclient> CREATE PROCEDURE proc()
   BEGIN
     DECLARE x INT DEFAULT 1;

     CASE x
       WHEN 2 THEN SELECT x;
       WHEN 3 THEN SELECT 0;
       ELSE
         BEGIN
         END;
     END CASE;
   END //
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
