# Prepare installation packages

To deploy OceanBase Database, obtain the necessary installation packages.

The following table provides information on the installation packages for each component.

<table>
   <tr>
       <th>Installation package</th>
       <th>Description</th>
       <th>How to obtain</th>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>OceanBase Admin Toolkit (OAT) image</td>
       <td>This image is used to install and manage OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), OceanBase Migration Service (OMS), and OceanBase Developer Center (ODC). </td>
       <td>Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the latest OAT image. </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td rowspan>OCP Docker image</td>
       <td rowspan>This image is used to deploy OCP. </td>
       <td>Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the latest OCP Docker image. </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>MetaDB Docker image</td>
       <td>This image is used to deploy the OCP MetaDB and MonitorDB. </td>
       <td>Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the latest MetaDB Docker image. </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <tr>
       <td>OceanBase RPM package</td>
       <td>This package is used to deploy an OceanBase cluster. </td>
       <td>Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the latest OceanBase RPM package. </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) RPM package</td>
       <td>This package is used to deploy ODP. </td>
       <td>Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the latest ODP RPM package. </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>(Optional) OMS Docker image</td>
       <td>This image is used to deploy OMS. </td>
       <td>Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the latest OMS Docker image. </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>(Optional) ODC Docker image</td>
       <td>This image is used to deploy ODC. </td>
       <td>Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the latest ODC Docker image. </td>
   </tr>
</table>
