|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Restart a node

Restart is a general O&M action. You can perform a restart for provisional maintenance of a server or for system parameter modifications to take effect. During the restart, the offline time of the node must be within the time specified by the `server_permanent_offline_time` parameter. Otherwise, the node will be permanently offline. If the maintenance of a server takes a long time, replace it. For more information about how to replace a server, see [Replace a node](../300.common-cluster-operations/700.replace-a-node.md).

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>The <code>server_permanent_offline_time</code> parameter specifies the time threshold for heartbeat missing. When the heartbeat of an OBServer node is missing for the specified time threshold, the OBServer node is considered permanently offline. Data replicas on a permanently offline OBServer node must be automatically supplemented. The default value is 3600s. For more information about this parameter, see <a href="../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/19000.server_permanent_offline_time.md">server_permanent_offline_time</a>. </p>
</main>

## Background information

OceanBase Database is a distributed database and is typically built based on a multi-replica architecture, such as three replicas in three IDCs of the same region and five replicas in five IDCs across three regions. A transaction is committed only when the transaction log is synchronized among the majority of replicas by using the Paxos protocol, thereby ensuring data consistency among replicas. When a minority of replicas are abnormal, a service level agreement (SLA) objective with a recovery point objective (RPO) of 0 is met.

In a multi-replica architecture, the `STOP SERVER` command can implement a restart without business loss. The `STOP SERVER` command involves two steps:

1. Switch all leaders away from the node to be restarted and make sure that the replicas on the remaining nodes are still in the majority.

2. Mark the node to be restarted (which is in the `ACTIVE` state, and the value of the `stop_time` field is greater than 0) as stopped on RootService. After the client detects a stopped node, the client will no longer route business requests to this node.

After the `Stop Server` operation succeeds, the node restart will not cause issues such as election without a leader or errors returned on the client. The restart is transparent to business traffic. If the `Stop Server` operation fails, you must stop the restart and identify the causes. For example, replicas are insufficient, a latency exists in redo logs, or the total number of voting members is less than 3.

## Procedure

The general procedure for restarting a node consists of the following steps: stop the service, initiate a minor compaction, stop the process, start the process, and start the service.

This topic describes how to restart a single node in a cluster. To restart multiple nodes, repeat the restart procedure multiple times.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of an OceanBase cluster as the `root` user.

   Note that you must specify the corresponding fields in the following sample code based on your actual database configurations.

   ```shell
   obclient -h10.xx.xx.xx -P2883 -uroot@sys#obdemo -p***** -A
   ```

   For more information about how to connect to a database, see [Connection methods (MySQL mode)](../../../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md) or [Connection methods (Oracle mode)](../../../300.develop/200.application-development-of-oracle-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-oracle-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-oracle-mode.md).

2. Execute the following statement to isolate the target node.

   The service continuity may be affected during the restart of a node. For example, if a cluster contains only one or two nodes or the tenant data is distributed only on two nodes, database services may become unavailable when a node is restarted. When you perform the `Stop Server` operation to isolate the node, the system performs a security check to avoid affecting service continuity during the node restart. After the node is isolated, it no longer provides services. If the `Stop Server` operation fails, you must check the cluster deployment information or resolve the issue based on the error information and then perform the `Stop Server` operation again. If the service unavailability of the node is not a concern, skip this step.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM STOP SERVER 'svr_ip:svr_port';
   ```

   where

   * `svr_ip` specifies the IP address of the node to be stopped.

   * `svr_port` specifies the RPC port of the node to be stopped. The default value is 2882.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM STOP SERVER '172.xx.xx.xx:2882';
   ```

   After the statement is executed, you can query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_SERVERS` view for the `STATUS` field of this server. In the view, the value of this field is still `ACTIVE` but the value of `STOP_TIME` changes from `NULL` to the point in time when the node is stopped.

   For more information about how to query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_SERVERS` view, see [View a node](../300.common-cluster-operations/200.view-an-observer.md).

3. Execute the following statement to initiate a minor compaction for the node to be restarted. This is to shorten the time required to replay redo logs after the restart, thereby accelerating the restart.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM MINOR FREEZE SERVER = ('svr_ip:svr_port');
   ```

   where

   * `svr_ip` specifies the IP address of the node to be restarted.

   * `svr_port` specifies the RPC port of the node to be restarted. The default value is 2882.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM  MINOR FREEZE SERVER = ('172.xx.xx.xx:2882');
   ```

   After you initiate a minor compaction, you must wait for the minor compaction to complete before you proceed to the next step. For more information about how to view the minor compaction progress, see [View minor compaction information](../../../700.reference/200.system-management/500.manage-data-storage/100.dump-management/400.view-dump-information.md).

   For more information about minor compactions, see [Minor compaction](../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/900.storage-architecture/300.dump-and-merge/200.dump.md).

4. Stop the observer process.

   1. Log on as the `admin` user to the server where the node whose process is to be stopped is located.

   2. Access the `/home/admin/oceanbase` directory from the command-line interface (CLI).

      ```bash
      [admin@xxx /]$ cd /home/admin/oceanbase
      ```

      For more information about the installation directory of OceanBase Database, see [Structure of the OBServer installation directory](../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/1200.observer-node-architecture/100.observer-installation-directory-structure.md).

   3. Run the following command to obtain the process ID of the node:

      ```bash
      [admin@xxx oceanbase]$ ps -ef | grep observer | grep -v grep
      admin    103364      1 99  2022 ?        51-17:24:41 /home/admin/oceanbase/bin/observer
      ```

      Here, `103364` is the process ID of the node.

   4. Stop the observer process.

      The syntax is as follows:

      ```bash
      [admin@xxx oceanbase]$ kill -9 pid
      ```

      Here, `pid` is the ID of the observer process on the node to be stopped.

      Here is an example:

      ```bash
      [admin@xxx oceanbase]$ kill -9 103364
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>You can stop only one observer process on a node in the deployment directory. To stop the observer processes on multiple nodes, log on to the corresponding servers one by one and repeat the preceding procedure. </p>
      </main>

   5. Run the following command to verify whether the process is stopped.

      ```bash
      [admin@xxx oceanbase]$ ps aux | grep observer
      ```

      If no response is returned after the command is executed, the process is stopped.

5. (Optional) Perform provisional maintenance on the server as needed.

6. Start the observer process.

   1. Log on as the `admin` user to the server where the node whose process is to be started is located.

   2. Start the observer process.

      ```bash
      [admin@xxx oceanbase]$ cd /home/admin/oceanbase  &&  ./bin/observer
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>You can start only one observer process on a node in the deployment directory. To start the observer processes on multiple nodes, log on to the corresponding servers one by one and repeat the preceding procedure. </p>
      </main>

      For more information about the installation directory of OceanBase Database, see [Structure of the OBServer installation directory](../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/1200.observer-node-architecture/100.observer-installation-directory-structure.md).

7. Execute the following statement to start the node:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM START SERVER 'svr_ip:svr_port';
   ```

   where

   * `svr_ip` specifies the IP address of the node to be started.

   * `svr_port` specifies the RPC port of the node to start. The default value is 2882.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM START SERVER '172.xx.xx.xx:2882';
   ```

   After the statement is executed, you can query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_SERVERS` view. The value of `START_SERVICE_TIME` indicates the time when the node is started. If the value is `NULL`, the node is not started.

   For more information about how to query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_SERVERS` view, see [View a node](../300.common-cluster-operations/200.view-an-observer.md).

## References

For more node-related O&M operations, see the following topics:

* [View a node](../300.common-cluster-operations/200.view-an-observer.md)

* [Add a node](../300.common-cluster-operations/400.add-a-node.md)

* [Delete a node](../300.common-cluster-operations/500.delete-a-node.md)

* [Isolate a node](../300.common-cluster-operations/600.isolation-a-node.md)

* [Replace a node](../300.common-cluster-operations/700.replace-a-node.md)
