# Overview

Null indicates an invalid, unspecified, unknown, or unpredictable value in a database table. Nulls are allowed in columns whose data types are not subject to the NOT NULL or PRIMARY KEY constraints. Arithmetic expressions that contain a null always return nulls.

OceanBase Database supports the following types of nulls: nulls in SQL functions, nulls in comparison conditions, and nulls in conditional expressions.

## Nulls in SQL functions

A null in an SQL function means that the argument of the SQL function is null. Given a null argument, most scalar functions return `NULL`, while aggregate functions (except for `COUNT()` and `GROUPING()`) ignore the null value.

| Null | Description |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Nulls in scalar functions | When nulls appear, you can determine the nulls by using the return value of the `NVL()` function. |
| Nulls in aggregate functions | Aggregate functions such as `AVG`, `MAX`, and `SUM` ignore null records.  |

## Nulls in comparison conditions

`Nulls` in comparison conditions are compared with any other conditions. To check for nulls, you can only use the `IS NULL` and `IS NOT NULL` operators. Because `NULL` means a lack of data, a `null` value cannot be equal to, unequal to, greater than, or less than any other value. It cannot be compared with any values, including itself.

## Nulls in conditional expressions

Nulls may also appear in conditional expressions such as `= NULL`, `! = NULL`, `NULL =`, and `NULL ! = `. In this case, `NULLs` are used for logic judgment and no row is returned as the judgment result. Therefore, the result is `UNKNOWN`.
