|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Create a database

This topic describes how to create a database with some examples.

## Overview

In OceanBase Database, a database includes several tables, indexes, and metadata information about database objects. It is advisable to avoid using the default database, such as the test database, in a production environment. If not necessary, it is recommended to create your own database using SQL statements.

## Prerequisites

Before creating a database, make sure that:

* You have deployed an OceanBase cluster and created a MySQL tenant. For more information about how to deploy an OceanBase cluster, see [Deployment overview](../../../400.deploy/100.deploy-overview.md).

* You have connected to the MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database. For more information about how to connect to OceanBase Database, see [Overview of connection methods](../100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md).

* You have the `CREATE` privilege. For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/200.permission-of-mysql-mode/400.view-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md). If you do not have the privilege, contact the administrator. For more information about how to grant privileges, see [Modify user privileges](../../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/200.permission-of-mysql-mode/500.modify-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Limitations

* In OceanBase Database, the name of each database must be globally unique.
* The database name is limited to 128 characters in length.
* The database name can only contain uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, underscores, dollar signs, and Chinese characters.
* Avoid using reserved keywords as a database name.
  For more information about the reserved keywords in OceanBase Database's MySQL mode, see [Reserved keywords](../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/800.reserved-keyword-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Considerations

* We recommend that you give the database a meaningful name that reflects its purpose and content as much as possible. For example, use **`application_identifier_sub-application_name (optional)_db`** as the database name.
* We recommend that you use the `root` user to create the database and related users, and assign only necessary privileges to ensure the security and controllability of the database.
* When creating a database, ensure that appropriate default character set and collation are set to ensure proper storage and sorting of data. To accommodate the long-term development of the business, it is recommended to use the `utf8mb4` character set encoding when creating a database to ensure it can store the majority of characters.
* While it is possible to create a database name using purely numeric characters by enclosing them with backticks (\`), this practice is generally not recommended. Database names consisting purely numbers lack clear significance and require the use of backticks (\`) for querying, which can lead to unnecessary complexity and potential confusion.

  For more information about the character sets supported by OceanBase Database, see [Database-level character sets and collations](../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/100.basic-elements-of-mysql-mode/300.character-set-and-collation-of-mysql-mode/400.specify-character-set-and-collation-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Use statements to create databases

You can use the [CREATE DATABASE](../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2100.create-database-of-mysql-mode.md) statement to create a database.

The syntax for the `CREATE DATABASE` statement is as follows:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE [IF NOT EXISTS] database_name [database_option_list];
```

where

* `database_name` specifies the name of the database.
* `database_option_list` is a list of options used to set the characteristics, behavior, and properties of the database, such as character set and collation.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>You can use the <code>SHOW DATABASES;</code> statement to view information about the databases in the tenant.</p>
</main>

## Examples

### Example 1: Create a database and specify its character set

Execute the following statement to create a database named `test_db` and specify the character set as `utf8mb4`:

```sql
obclient [(none)]> CREATE DATABASE test_db DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8mb4;
```

### Example 2: Create a read-only database

Execute the following statement to create a read-only database named `test_ro_db`:

```sql
obclient [(none)]> CREATE DATABASE test_ro_db READ ONLY;
```

### Example 3: Create a database that supports read and write operations

Execute the following statement to create a database named `test_rw_db` that supports read and write operations:

```sql
obclient [(none)]> CREATE DATABASE test_rw_db READ WRITE;
```

## What to do next

After creating a database, you can perform the following operations:

* Create the required tables in the database, defining the structure and fields of the tables. For more information, see [Create a table](300.create-table-of-mysql-mode-in-develop.md).
* If needed, you can migrate existing data to the newly created database. For more information on data migration, see [Data migration overview](../../../500.data-migration/100.data-migration-overview.md).

## References

* For more information about how to view database information, see [View databases](../../../700.reference/300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/100.manage-databases-of-mysql-mode/200.view-a-database-of-mysql-mode.md).
* For more information about how to modify a database, see [Modify a database](../../../700.reference/300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/100.manage-databases-of-mysql-mode/300.modify-a-database-of-mysql-mode.md).
* For more information about how to drop a database, see [Drop a database](../../../700.reference/300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/100.manage-databases-of-mysql-mode/400.delete-a-database-of-mysql-mode.md).
