Partitioned tables 
=======================================

After you create a partitioned table, you can add a partition to the table, drop a partition from the table, or truncate a partition for the table. 

Add a partition 
------------------------------------

* Range or list partitioning

  For a range-partitioned table, you can add a partition only after the largest partition. You cannot add a partition at the start or in the middle of the range. If a table has a `MAXVALUE` partition, you cannot add new partitions to the table. 

  For a list-partitioned table, you cannot add a partition that conflicts with previous partitions. If a list-partitioned table has a `Default Partition`, you cannot add new partitions to the table. 

  To add a RANGE or LIST partition in MySQL mode, use the following syntax:

  ```sql
  ALTER TABLE table_name
    ADD PARTITION 
    (
      partition_defines
    )
  ```

  

  Adding a partition in a range- or list-partitioned table does not affect the use of global and local indexes.
  

* Hash or key partitioning

  In the current OceanBase Database version, you cannot add a partition to a hash- or key-partitioned table.
  




Drop a partition 
-------------------------------------

You can drop multiple partitions at a time, but you cannot drop all the partitions in a table. 

* Range or list partitioning

  When you drop a partition from a range- or list-partitioned table, the data in the partition is also dropped. 

  To drop a partition in MySQL mode, use the following syntax: 

  ```sql
  obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name DROP PARTITION p1;
  
  obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name DROP PARTITION p1,p2;
  ```

  

  When you drop a partition, the data in the partition is also dropped. If you want to drop only the data, use the `TRUNCATE` statement.
  

* Hash or key partitioning

  In the current OceanBase Database version, you cannot drop a partition from a hash- or key-partitioned table.
  




Truncate a partition 
-----------------------------------------

In the current OceanBase Database version, you can truncate one or more range or list partitions to clear all data from the partitions. 

To truncate a partition in MySQL mode, use the following syntax:

```sql
obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name TRUNCATE PARTITION p1;

obclient> ALTER TABLE table_name TRUNCATE PARTITION p1,p2;
```


