TRIM method
============================

You can use the `TRIM` method to trim elements from the end of a variable-size array (or varray) or nested table.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Considerations for `TRIM` are as follows:

* `TRIM` will trim one element from the end of a collection. Therefore, the collection must contain at least one element. Otherwise, the predefined exception `SUBSCRIPT_BEYOND_COUNT` will be raised.

* `TRIM(n)` will trim `n` elements from the end of a collection. Therefore, the collection must contain at least `n` elements. Otherwise, the predefined exception `SUBSCRIPT_BEYOND_COUNT` will be raised.




`TRIM` trims elements based on the internal size of a collection. In other words, if the `DELETE` method deletes an element but retains a placeholder for this element, `TRIM` considers that this element still exists. Therefore, you can use `TRIM` to trim a deleted element.

PL does not retain placeholders for trimmed elements. Therefore, trimmed elements are not counted in the internal size of a collection, and you cannot recover trimmed elements by assigning valid values to them.


  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>PL does not depend on the interactions between <code>TRIM</code> and <code>DELETE</code>. Consider a nested table as a fixed-size array that supports only the <code>DELETE</code> method, or as a stack that supports only the <code>TRIM</code> and <code>EXTEND</code> methods. </p>
  </main>

Here is an example:

```javascript
obclient> DECLARE
  t nested_type:= nested_type('A', 'B', 'C', 'D', 'E', 'F');
BEGIN
  print_t(t);

  t.TRIM;          -- Trim the last element.
  print_t(t);

  t.DELETE(3);     -- Delete the third element.
  print_t(t);

  t.TRIM(2);       -- Trim the last two elements.
  print_t(t);

END;
/
Query OK, 0 rows affected

t.(1) = A
t.(2) = B
t.(3) = C
t.(4) = D
t.(5) = E
t.(6) = F
---
t.(1) = A
t.(2) = B
t.(3) = C
t.(4) = D
t.(5) = E
---
t.(1) = A
t.(2) = B
t.(4) = D
t.(5) = E
---
t.(1) = A
t.(2) = B
---
```



The preceding example declares a nested table variable, initializes and assigns values to six elements, and performs the following operations on the elements:

1. Trim the last element.



2. Delete the fourth element.



3. Trim the last two elements.






The `print_nt` stored procedure outputs the nested table variable after initialization and the `TRIM` and `DELETE` operations.
