EXTEND method
==============================

You can use the `EXTEND` method to append an element to the end of a variable-size array (or varray) or nested table.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

A collection can be empty but not null. You can use the constructor function to make a collection empty or add elements to a null collection. For more information, see [Collection constructor function](../600.collection-constructor-oracle.md).

Considerations for `EXTEND` are as follows:

* `EXTEND` appends a null element to a collection.

* `EXTEND(n)` appends `n` null elements to a collection.



* `EXTEND(n,i)` appends `n` copies of the `ith` element to a collection.





  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Only <code>EXTEND(n,i)</code> is applicable to a collection with the <code>NOT NULL</code> constraint for elements. </p>
  </main>

`EXTEND` appends elements based on the internal size of a collection. In other words, if the `DELETE` method deletes an element but retains a placeholder for this element, `EXTEND` considers that this element still exists.

Here is an example:

```javascript
obclient> DECLARE
  t nested_type:= nested_type('A', 'B', 'C');
BEGIN
  print_t(t);

  t.EXTEND(2,1);     -- Append two copies of the first element to the collection.
  print_t(t);

  t.DELETE(4);     -- Delete the fourth element.
  print_t(t);

  t.EXTEND;       -- Append a null element to the collection.
  print_t(t);

END;
/

Query OK, 0 rows affected
t.(1) = A
t.(2) = B
t.(3) = C
---
t.(1) = A
t.(2) = B
t.(3) = C
t.(4) = A
t.(5) = A
---
t.(1) = A
t.(2) = B
t.(3) = C
t.(5) = A
---
t.(1) = A
t.(2) = B
t.(3) = C
t.(5) = A
t.(6) = NULL
---
```



The preceding example declares a nested table variable, initializes and assigns values to three elements, and performs the following operations on the elements:

1. Append two copies of the first element to the collection.



2. Delete the fourth element.



3. Append a null element to the collection.






The `print_nt` stored procedure outputs the nested table variable after initialization and the `EXTEND` and `DELETE` operations.
