# Install and deploy obcdc

This topic describes how to install and deploy obcdc. You can install and deploy obcdc by using an RPM package or compiling your own package.

## Install obcdc by using an RPM package

RPM packages of obcdc will be published after OceanBase Community Edition is released, and are named in the format of `oceanbase-ce-cdc-${package_version}`. <!-- For details, see [OceanBase Community Edition release notes](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase/releases). -->

Run the following command to decompress the package:

```bash
rpm2cpio oceanbase-ce-cdc-${package_version} | cpio -idv
```

In the directory to which the RPM package is decompressed, the `home/admin/oceanbase` directory exists and contains the following components that are essential for the running of obcdc:

* Header files: `libobcdc.h` and `ob_errno.h` in the `include/libobcdc/` directory.
* Configuration file for reference: `libobcdc.conf` in the `etc/` directory.
* Library files: `libobcdc.so` in the `lib64/` directory.
* Executable files: `obcdc_tailf` in the `bin/` directory.
* Output messages: in the `include/oblogmsg/` directory.

## Installation through source code compilation

### Code description

The obcdc code is in the `src/logservice/libobcdc` directory of the [OceanBase Database open source repository](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase). The directory has two subdirectories:

* `src` directory: stores the obcdc code.
* `tests` directory: stores obcdc_tailf, a simple application for you to experience the features of obcdc. For more information, see [obcdc_tailf](../100.deploy-and-use-obcdc/300.obcdc_tailf.md). The `tests` directory contains the following files and directories:

   * Source files of obcdc_tailf. You can use them as a reference when you compile your own incremental data consumption tools for OceanBase Database.

   * watch\*.sh: Various monitoring scripts.

   * demo directory: contains libobcdc examples that describe the usage of libobcdc.

### Compilation

You can run the following command to compile obcdc together with OceanBase Database:

```bash
./build.sh release -DOB_BUILD_CDC=ON --init --make
```

> **Notice**
>
> * Use the release mode to compile the code.
> * If you want to use the dlopen system function to dynamically link to obcdc, you need to add the `OB_BUILD_CDC=ON` parameter during compilation.

The compiled outputs include:

* <span>libobcdc.so</span>: in the `${PROJECT_BUILD_DIR}/src/logservice/libobcdc/src/` directory.
* obcdc_tailf: in the `$${PROJECT_BUILD_DIR}/src/logservice/libobcdc/tests/` directory.

You can run the `./libobcdc.so -v` command in the output directory to view the version, build time, and build method of obcdc.
