# Update a resource management plan config

You can use the `UPDATE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to update a resource management plan config. The content that can be updated includes the resource management plan, the bound resource group, the comments on the resource management plan config, and the limit on the CPU resources available for the resource group.

## Prerequisites

If you want to change the original resource management plan or resource group, make sure that you have created a new one. For the steps to create a resource management plan or resource group, see [Configure user-level resource isolation](../300.resource-isolation-of-mysql-mode/200.resource-isolation-at-user-level-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Procedure

1. Log in to a MySQL tenant of the cluster using the administrator.

2. Call the `UPDATE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to update the resource management plan config.

   ```sql
   obclient [test]> CALL DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.UPDATE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE(
   PLAN => 'daytime',
   GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN => 'interactive_group' ,
   NEW_COMMENT => 'new',
   NEW_MGMT_P1 => 40,
   NEW_UTILIZATION_LIMIT => 60);
   NEW_MIN_IOPS => 40,
   NEW_MAX_IOPS => 80,
   NEW_WEIGHT_IOPS => 70);
   ```

   where

   * `PLAN`: Indicates the name of the new resource management plan.

   * `GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN`: Indicates the name of the new resource group.

   * `NEW_COMMENT`: Indicates the new comments on the resource management plan config.

   * `NEW_MGMT_P1`: Indicates the new percentage of CPU resources available for the resource group when the system runs at full load.

   * `NEW_UTILIZATION_LIMIT`: Indicates the new upper limit on the CPU resources available for the resource group.

   * `NEW_MIN_IOPS`: Indicates the new IOPS resources reserved for the resource group in the case of I/O resource contention. The sum of `NEW_MIN_IOPS` values of all resource groups cannot exceed 100.

   * `NEW_MAX_IOPS`: Indicates the new maximum IOPS resources available for the resource group. The sum of `NEW_MAX_IOPS` values of all resource groups can exceed 100.

   * `NEW_WEIGHT_IOPS`: Indicates the new weight for IOPS resources. The sum of `NEW_WEIGHT_IOPS` values of all resource groups can exceed 100.

3. Query the `oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` or `oceanbase.DBA_OB_RSRC_IO_DIRECTIVES` view to verify whether the resource management plan config has been updated.

   ```sql
   obclient [test]> SELECT PLAN, GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN, MGMT_P1, UTILIZATION_LIMIT FROM oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES;
   +---------+-------------------+---------+-------------------+
   | PLAN    | GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN  | MGMT_P1 | UTILIZATION_LIMIT |
   +---------+-------------------+---------+-------------------+
   | DAY     | group1            |      80 |               100 |
   | daytime | batch_group       |     100 |                40 |
   | daytime | interactive_group |     100 |                60 |
   +---------+-------------------+---------+-------------------+
   3 rows in set

   obclient [test]> SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_RSRC_IO_DIRECTIVES;
   ```

   For more information about the `oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view, see [oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/20600.oceanbase-dba_rsrc_plan_directives.md).

   For more information about the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_RSRC_IO_DIRECTIVES` view, see [oceanbase.DBA_OB_RSRC_IO_DIRECTIVES](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/20400.oceanbase.dba_ob_rsrc_io_directives.md).

## References

[UPDATE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/300.pl-reference/200.pl-mysql/1000.pl-system-package-mysql/13300.dbms-resource-manager-mysql/900.update-plan-directive-mysql.md)
