# Delete a resource management plan config

Deleting a resource management plan config means removing the CPU resource limits for the resource group in the resource management plan. You can use the `DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to accomplish this.

## Prerequisites

Before deleting a resource management plan config, make sure that the corresponding resource management plan and resource group exist. Otherwise, the deletion may fail.

## Procedure

1. Log in to a MySQL tenant of the cluster using the administrator.

2. Call the `DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE` subprogram in the `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER` package to delete the resource management plan config.

   ```sql
   obclient [test]> CALL DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER.DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE(
   PLAN => 'daytime',
   GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN => 'interactive_group'
   );
   ```

   Here, `PLAN` specifies the resource management plan, and `GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN` specifies the bound resource group.

   In this example, after the CPU resource limits for the `interactive_group` resource group are removed, SQL statements that were previously using the resources in the `interactive_group` resource group will now use the resources in the default resource group `OTHER_GROUP`.

3. Query the `oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view to verify whether the resource management plan config has been deleted.

   ```sql
   obclient [test]> SELECT PLAN, GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN FROM oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES;
   +---------+------------------+
   | PLAN    | GROUP_OR_SUBPLAN |
   +---------+------------------+
   | DAY     | group1           |
   | daytime | batch_group      |
   +---------+------------------+
   2 rows in set
   ```

   For more information about the `oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES` view, see [oceanbase.DBA_RSRC_PLAN_DIRECTIVES](../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/20600.oceanbase-dba_rsrc_plan_directives.md).

## References

[DELETE_PLAN_DIRECTIVE](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/300.pl-reference/200.pl-mysql/1000.pl-system-package-mysql/13300.dbms-resource-manager-mysql/700.delete-plan-directive-mysql.md)
