Start or stop a zone 
=========================================

You can start or stop a zone by using SQL statements or on OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP). 

Start or stop a zone by using SQL statements 
-----------------------------------------------------------------

You can start a zone in a cluster to enable the physical servers in the zone to provide services externally, or stop the zone to disable the physical servers from providing services externally. 

The syntax of the statement for starting or stopping a zone is as follows, where the `zone_name` parameter specifies the name of the target zone:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM {START|STOP|FORCE STOP} ZONE zone_name;
```



**Example 1** : Start `Zone1` in the cluster. 

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM START ZONE Zone1;
```



**Example 2** : Stop `Zone1` in the cluster. 

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM STOP ZONE Zone1;
```



**Example 3** : Forcibly stop `Zone1` in the cluster. 
**Note**



The `FORCE STOP ZONE` statement stops a zone directly without checking the synchronization of the clogs in the zone.

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM FORCE STOP ZONE Zone1;
```



Start or stop a zone on OCP 
------------------------------------------------

**Note**

The operation interface of OCP may vary with the version. The following provides the operation guide for OCP V2.5.0. For operations on other OCP versions, see the User Guide of the corresponding version.

1. Log on to OCP. 

   The **Cluster Overview** page automatically appears.
   

2. In the **Clusters** section on the **Cluster Overview** page, select the target cluster and click its name.

   

3. In the **Zones** area on the **Overview** page, select the target zone, click the ... icon in the **Actions** column and select **Start** or **Stop** .

   



