Concepts 
=============================



**Execution plan** 

An execution process generated by the optimizer for an SQL statement and is generally expressed as a tree of operators. 

#### **Local plan** 

When an execution plan only involves a single table or a single partition of a partitioned table, and the table or partition is in the current node, the plan is defined as a "local plan". 

#### **Remote plan** 

When an execution plan only involves a single table or a single partition of a partitioned table, and the table or partition is in a node other than the current one, the plan is defined as a "remote plan". 

#### **Distributed plan** 

When an execution plan involves multiple tables or partitions, the plan is defined as a distributed plan. 

#### **Access path** 

The method by which a table is accessed, including primary table access and secondary index access. For more information, see [Access path](../500.oceanbase-database-overview/700.sql-engine/300.oceanbase-database-overview-query-optimization/100.oceanbase-database-overview-access-path/100.oceanbase-database-overview-overview-of-access-path.md).

#### **Join order** 

The order by which tables are joined. Currently, OceanBase Database supports only left-deep join trees. For more information, see [Join order](../500.oceanbase-database-overview/700.sql-engine/300.oceanbase-database-overview-query-optimization/200.oceanbase-database-overview-join-algorithm/300.oceanbase-database-overview-join-order.md).

#### **Join algorithms** 

The algorithm for joining two tables, including Nested Loop Join, Merge Join, and Hash Join. 

#### **Query rewrite** 

This is a process that changes your query to an equivalent alternative with a better execution plan. 

#### **Execution plan binding** 

This is a process that allows you to specify the execution plan of an SQL statement by using a given outline. For more information, see [Plan binding](400.sql-tuning/600.manage-execution-plans/200.plan-binding.md).

#### **SQL Plan Management (SPM)** 

A plan evolution mechanism. With the evolution mechanism, the optimizer verifies if any new plan will cause a performance regression. In the case of a performance regression, the plan is rejected. 

#### **Adaptive Cursor Sharing (ACS)** 

A mechanism that allows the optimizer to store multiple plans for each parameterized SQL and select the appropriate plan based on the selection probability space of predicates in an SQL statement. 

#### **Data Flow Object (DFO)** 

Taking data redistribution points as the boundary, a distributed plan is divided into multiple logical subplans that can be executed concurrently. Each subplan is encapsulated in a DFO.
