|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Connect to an OceanBase tenant by using OBClient

This topic describes how to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database by using OceanBase Client (OBClient).

## Prerequisites

* The OBClient application is downloaded and installed. If OBClient is not downloaded, download the required version from [OceanBase Download Center](https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter).

* The client is in the allowlist of the tenant. For more information about how to query and configure a tenant allowlist, see [View and set a tenant allowlist](../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/500.view-and-set-whitelist.md).

## Procedure

1. Open a command-line terminal.

2. Connect to OceanBase Database.

   You can connect to OceanBase Database directly or by using an OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP).

   * To connect to OceanBase Database by using an ODP, run the following command:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uusername@obtenant#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uobdemo:obtenant:username -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      where

      * `-h` specifies the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an ODP.

      * `-u` specifies the tenant account. The following account formats are supported: `username@tenant name#cluster name`, `cluster name:tenant name:username`, `cluster name-tenant name-username`, and `cluster name.tenant name.username`. The default username of the administrator of a MySQL tenant is `root`.

         <main id="notice" type='explain'>
           <h4>Note</h4>
            <p>When connecting to an OceanBase cluster using ODP, you can obtain the cluster name in the following way:</br>First, connect directly to the OceanBase database; then use the <code>SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'cluster';</code> command to retrieve the name of the cluster. This command will return the value of <code>VALUE</code> corresponding to the name of the OceanBase cluster in the result.</p>
         </main>

      * `-P` specifies the port for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is also the listening port of the ODP. The default value is `2883`, which can be customized when ODP is deployed.

      * `-c` specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of OBClient.

         <main id="notice" type='explain'>
         <h4>Note</h4>
         <p>Hint is a special comment that is not affected by the <code>-c</code> option.</p>
         </main>

      * `-A` specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to a MySQL tenant.

      * `oceanbase` specifies the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database name. 

      Here is an example:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u*****@obtenant#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uobdemo:obtenant:***** -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

   * To directly connect to OceanBase Database, run the following command:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uusername@obtenant -P2881 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      where

      * `-h` specifies the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is the IP address of an OBServer node.

      * `-u` specifies the tenant account in the `username@tenant name` format. The default username of the administrator of a MySQL tenant is `root`.

      * `-P` specifies the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. The default value is `2881`, which can be customized when OceanBase Database is deployed.

      * `-p` specifies the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this option. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible.

      * `-c` specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of OBClient.

         <main id="notice" type='explain'>
         <h4>Note</h4>
         <p>Hint is a special comment that is not affected by the <code>-c</code> option.</p>
         </main>

      * `-A` specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to a MySQL tenant.

      * `oceanbase` specifies the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database name. 

      * When you use the direct connection method, make sure that the tenant resources are distributed on the OBServer node you specified. Otherwise, you cannot connect to the tenant by using this OBServer node.

      Here is an example:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u******@obtenant -P2881 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

3. After the connection is established, the following command-line prompt is displayed by default:

   ```sql
   obclient>
   ```

4. To exit the OBClient command line, enter `exit` and press **Enter**, or press the shortcut key **Ctrl** + **D**.

## Connection example

The following example shows how to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient.

```sql
$obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u******@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A sys
Welcome to the OceanBase.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your OceanBase connection id is 3221684181
Server version: OceanBase 4.0.0.0 (r100000302022111120-7cef93737c5cd03331b5f29130c6e80ac950d33b) (Built Nov 11 2022 20:38:33)

Copyright (c) 2000, 2018, OceanBase and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient> SELECT SYSDATE() FROM dual;
+---------------------+
| SYSDATE()           |
+---------------------+
| 2022-09-28 16:18:18 |
+---------------------+
1 row in set

obclient> exit
Bye
```

## References

For information about how to connect to an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient, see [Connect to an OceanBase tenant by using OBClient](../../200.application-development-of-oracle-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-oracle-mode/200.connect-to-an-oceanbase-tenant-by-using-obclient-of-oracle-mode.md).
