|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Create an empty standby tenant

You can create an empty standby tenant if the primary tenant is a new tenant or the primary tenant contains complete logs generated since its creation.

## Step 1: Create a dedicated user for accessing views

When a standby tenant connects to a primary tenant, the standby tenant must access system views of the primary tenant. Therefore, a dedicated user with the privilege to query the system views is required. You can use a user with the privilege in the primary tenant, or create a dedicated user with the privilege in the primary tenant for the standby tenant.

System views to be accessed by the standby tenant:

* `GV$OB_LOG_STAT`: contains the servers in the primary tenant, the log sequence number (LSN) range of log streams for replicas, and the role information indicating whether a replica is a leader.

   For more information about the `GV$OB_LOG_STAT` view, see [GV$OB_LOG_STAT](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/11400.gv-ob_log_stat-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `GV$OB_UNITS`: contains the replica status, zones, and regions of all units in the primary tenant. You can use this view to filter, query, and maintain server connections for tenants.

   For more information about the `GV$OB_UNITS` view, see [GV$OB_UNITS](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/1300.gv-ob_units-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `GV$OB_PARAMETERS`: contains the metadata required for services, such as the `cluster_id` and `tenant_id` of the primary tenant.

   For more information about the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view, see [GV$OB_PARAMETERS](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/600.gv-ob_parameters-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT`: contains information about the access portal. If the access portal changes during migration, replication, or disaster recovery of the primary tenant, the standby tenant automatically synchronizes the change without manual modification.

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT` view, see [DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/23600.dba_ob_access_point-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `DBA_OB_TENANTS`: contains the compatibility mode of the primary tenant.

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_TENANTS` view, see [DBA_OB_TENANTS](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/19300.oceanbase-dba_ob_tenants-of-mysql-mode.md).

* `DBA_OB_LS`: contains the log streams and log stream status of the primary tenant.

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_LS` view, see [DBA_OB_LS](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/17600.oceanbase-dba_ob_ls-of-mysql-mode.md).

To create and authorize a dedicated user, perform the following operations:

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>In OceanBase Database, standby tenants synchronize usernames and privileges from a primary tenant. You cannot create a user or grant privileges to a user in a standby tenant. Therefore, if the source of a standby tenant is another standby tenant, you must create a dedicated user for accessing views in the corresponding primary tenant and grant privileges to the user. </p>
</main>

### MySQL mode

1. Log on to the primary tenant as the administrator.

2. Create a user.

   ```sql
   CREATE USER rep_user IDENTIFIED BY '******';
   ```

3. Grant privileges to the user.

   The following sample statement grants the user the `SELECT` privilege on all tables in the `oceanbase` database. You can also grant the user the `SELECT` privilege on the `GV$OB_LOG_STAT`, `GV$OB_UNITS`, `GV$OB_PARAMETERS`, `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT`, `DBA_OB_TENANTS`, and `DBA_OB_LS` views in the `oceanbase` database.

   ```sql
   GRANT SELECT ON oceanbase.* TO rep_user;
   ```

### Oracle mode

1. Log on to the primary tenant as the administrator.

2. Create a user.

   ```sql
   CREATE USER rep_user IDENTIFIED BY '******';
   ```

3. Grant privileges to the user.

   * Grant the privilege to connect to the database.

     ```sql
     GRANT CONNECT TO rep_user;
     ```

   * Grant the privilege to access the `GV$OB_LOG_STAT` view.

     ```sql
     GRANT SELECT on SYS.GV$OB_LOG_STAT to rep_user;
     ```

   * Grant the privilege to access the `GV$OB_UNITS` view.

     ```sql
     GRANT SELECT on SYS.GV$OB_UNITS to rep_user;
     ```

   * Grant the privilege to access the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

     ```sql
     GRANT SELECT on SYS.GV$OB_PARAMETERS to rep_user;
     ```

   * Grant the privilege to access the `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT` view.

     ```sql
     GRANT SELECT on SYS.DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT to rep_user;
     ```

   * Grant the privilege to access the `DBA_OB_TENANTS` view.

     ```sql
     GRANT SELECT on SYS.DBA_OB_TENANTS to rep_user;
     ```

   * Grant the privilege to access the `DBA_OB_LS` view.

     ```sql
     GRANT SELECT on SYS.DBA_OB_LS to rep_user;
     ```

## Step 2: Create a standby tenant

1. Log on as the `root` user to the `sys` tenant of the cluster where you want to create the standby tenant.

2. Create a unit with required specifications for the standby tenant.

   The following sample statement creates a unit named `unit1` that contains 1 CPU core and 5 GB of memory.

   ```sql
   CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit1 MAX_CPU 1, MEMORY_SIZE = '5G';
   ```

   For more information, see [Create a tenant](../../../200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/200.manage-create-tenant.md).

3. Create a resource pool for the standby tenant.

   The following sample statement creates a resource pool named `pool_for_standby`.

   ```sql
   CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool_for_standby UNIT = 'unit1', UNIT_NUM = 1, ZONE_LIST = ('zone1','zone2','zone3');
   ```

   For more information, see [Create a tenant](../../../200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/200.manage-create-tenant.md).

4. Create an empty standby tenant.

   The SQL syntax is as follows:

   ```sql
   CREATE STANDBY TENANT [IF NOT EXISTS] tenant_name
     LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE [=] string_value
     [tenant_characteristic_list];

   tenant_characteristic_list:
   tenant_characteristic [, tenant_characteristic...]

    tenant_characteristic:
      COMMENT 'string'  
    | PRIMARY_ZONE [=] zone_name  
    | RESOURCE_POOL_LIST [=](pool_name [, pool_name...])
    | LOCALITY [=] 'locality description'
   ```

   The parameters are described as follows:

   * `tenant_name`: the name of the standby tenant to be created. This parameter is required. The name cannot exceed 128 characters in length. It must contain only uppercase and lowercase letters, digits, and underscores (_). The name must start with a letter or an underscore and must not contain reserved keywords of OceanBase Database.
   * `IF NOT EXISTS`: If the tenant name already exists and you do not specify the `IF NOT EXISTS` parameter, the system returns an error. This parameter is optional.
   * `LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE`: the log restore source, in the format of `'SERVICE=$ip_list USER=$user_name@$tenant_name PASSWORD=$password';`. This parameter is required. The fields of this parameter are consistent with those specified in the `ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE` statement.

      The fields of this parameter are described as follows:

      * `$ip_list`: the IP addresses and SQL port number of the OBServer nodes where replicas of the primary tenant reside. The SQL port number is 2881 by default. You can obtain the access information by querying the `DBA_OB_ACCESS_POINT` view in the primary tenant.
      * `$user_name`: the name of the dedicated user for accessing views.
      * `$tenant_name`: the name of the primary tenant to connect to.
      * `$password`: the password of the dedicated user for accessing views.

   * `COMMENT`: the comment. This parameter is optional.
   * `RESOURCE_POOL_LIST`: the resource pools to be used by the standby tenant. This parameter is required.
   * `PRIMARY_ZONE`: the name of the primary zone where the standby tenant resides. This parameter is optional.
   * `LOCALITY`: the distribution of replicas of the standby tenant across zones. This parameter is optional.

   For example:

   ```sql
   CREATE STANDBY TENANT IF NOT EXISTS standby_tenant LOG_RESTORE_SOURCE = "SERVICE=xx.xx.xx.1:2881;xx.xx.xx.2:2881;xx.xx.xx.3:2881 USER=rep
   _user@mysql PASSWORD=******" RESOURCE_POOL_LIST=('pool_for_standby');
   ```

5. Query the tenant status.

   ```sql
   SELECT TENANT_NAME, TENANT_TYPE, CREATE_TIME, STATUS, TENANT_ROLE,SCN_TO_TIMESTAMP(SYNC_SCN) FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS WHERE TENANT_NAME = 'standby_tenant';
   ```

   The query result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +----------------+-------------+----------------------------+--------+-------------+----------------------------+
   | TENANT_NAME    | TENANT_TYPE | CREATE_TIME                | STATUS | TENANT_ROLE | SCN_TO_TIMESTAMP(SYNC_SCN) |
   +----------------+-------------+----------------------------+--------+-------------+----------------------------+
   | standby_tenant | USER        | 2023-04-14 21:06:48.787550 | NORMAL | STANDBY     | 2023-04-14 21:12:59.183293 |
   +----------------+-------------+----------------------------+--------+-------------+----------------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   In the query result, the value of `TENANT_ROLE` is `STANDBY` and that of `STATUS` is `NORMAL`, which indicates that the standby tenant has been created and is in the normal state.

   The standby tenant automatically enters the continuous synchronization mode.

## References

* [Preparations](../200.create-a-standby-tenant/100.preparations-for-creat-standby-tenant.md)

* [Create a standby tenant by using the backup and recovery feature](../200.create-a-standby-tenant/300.create-a-standby-tenant-by-backup-and-recovery.md)

* [Create a standby tenant by using the BACKUP DATABASE PLUS ARCHIVELOG feature](../200.create-a-standby-tenant/400.create-a-standby-tenant-by-backup-database-plus-archivelog.md)

* [Specify a log restore source](../300.log-transport-service/200.configure-the-log-transport-service/100.set-log-restore-source.md)
