| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# JSON_SCHEMA_VALID

## Purpose

`JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` validates a JSON document. If the JSON document validates against the specified JSON schema, the function returns 1. Otherwise, the function returns 0. You can use this function on a column constraint.

## Syntax

```sql
JSON_SCHEMA_VALID(schema, document)
```

## Description

* The `schema` argument specifies a JSON schema, which must be a valid JSON object.

   * JSON schemas support the `required` attribute to enforce the inclusion of required properties.

   * JSON schemas support the `id`, `$schema`, `description`, and `type` attributes but do not require any of these.

* The `document` argument specifies the JSON document to be validated. The JSON document must be a valid JSON document.

* If any of the arguments is not valid JSON, the function raises an error.

## Examples

The following example defines the JSON schema `'{"type": "string"}'`, which requires that valid JSON data be of the string type. `'"JSON_doc"'` is the JSON document to be validated.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>In this statement, the <code>JSON_doc</code> string is wrapped in double quotation marks ("), indicating that it is a valid JSON string rather than a normal string. In JSON, string values must be wrapped in double quotation marks. </p>
</main>

```sql
obclient [infotest]> SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "string"}', '"JSON_doc"');
```

The return result is as follows:

```shell
+-------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "string"}', '"JSON_doc"') |
+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                     1 |
+-------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

In this example, because the JSON document is a valid JSON string, which conforms to the requirement of the JSON schema, the function returns `1`, indicating that the validation succeeds.

