# backup_dest_option

`backup_dest_option` specifies parameters related to backup.


<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is deprecated since OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>




| Parameter | Description |
|------------------|-------|
| Type | String |
| Default value | Empty string |
| Value range | N/A |
| Effective upon restart of OBServer node | No |


**Example**

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET backup_dest_option='log_archive_checkpoint_interval=2m&log_archive_piece_switch_interval=1d&backup_copies=0';
```

You can use the `backup_dest_option` parameter to specify the following backup parameters:

* `log_archive_checkpoint_interval`

   The `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` parameter specifies the interval of generating log archive checkpoints for infrequently accessed partitions.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>Partitions with data writes are archived by clog. Infrequently accessed partitions do not have data writes. Therefore, log archive checkpoints are generated to facilitate log archiving for infrequently accessed partitions. </p>
  </main>

   If you do not specify this parameter for `backup_dest_option`, the value of the cluster-level `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `log_archive_checkpoint_interval`, the default value `120s` is used. If both `backup_dest_option` and `log_archive_checkpoint_interval` are specified, the value of `backup_dest_option` is used. We recommend that you set this parameter for `backup_dest_option`.

* `recovery_window`

   `recovery_window` specifies the time window for recovering backup data. The system determines whether backup data has expired based on the value of this parameter. For example, the configuration `recovery_window='7d'` indicates that backup data within the last 7 days can be recovered, and the backup data beyond this restore window is considered expired.

   If you do not specify this parameter for `backup_dest_option`, the value of the cluster-level `backup_recovery_window` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `backup_recovery_window`, the default value `0` is used, indicating that backup data will never expire. If both `backup_dest_option` and `backup_recovery_window` are specified, the value of `backup_dest_option` is used. We recommend that you set this parameter for `backup_dest_option`.

   When the backup expires, the system automatically clears it based on preset rules.

   In the manual clearing mode, when the backup data expires, you can manually clear the data as the administrator.

* `auto_delete_obsolete_backup`

   The `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` parameter specifies whether to enable automatic data clearing. When you set `auto_delete_obsolete_backup` to true, the system automatically clears expired backup data.

   If you do not specify this parameter for `backup_dest_option`, the value of the cluster-level `auto_delete_expired_backup` is used by default. If you do not specify either `backup_dest_option` or `auto_delete_expired_backup`, the default value `false` is used, which indicates that expired backup data is not automatically cleared. If both `backup_dest_option` and `auto_delete_expired_backup` are specified, the value of `backup_dest_option` is used. We recommend that you set this parameter for `backup_dest_option`.

* `log_archive_piece_switch_interval`

   The `log_archive_piece_switch_interval` parameter specifies whether to automatically split the log file directory into multiple directories based on a specific interval. Value range: [1d, 7d]. Default value: `0`, which specifies not to perform log splitting.

   You must configure this parameter to enable log splitting.

* `backup_copies`

   The `backup_copies` parameter specifies the number of backup copies. Default value: `0`. If you do not specify `backup_backup_dest`, we recommend that you set backup_copies to `2`. The valid value range of backup_copies is [0,8].

   If you set `backup_copies` to a value less than `2`, the system deletes backup data without considering whether its second backup is successful. If you set `backup_copies` to `2`, the system will only automatically clear backup data in `backup_dest` after its second backup is saved to `backup_backup_dest`. If second backup is not set, we recommend that you use the default value.
