| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# LOCK_TABLE_STATS

The `LOCK_TABLE_STATS` procedure locks statistics on a table.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_STATS.LOCK_TABLE_STATS (
  ownname    VARCHAR2,
  tabname    VARCHAR2,
  stattype   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'ALL');
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|----------|--------------------------|
| ownname | The username. If the username is set to `NULL`, the current logon username is used by default.  |
| tabname | The name of the table.  |
| stattype | The type of the statistics to be locked. Three types are supported: <ul><li> `'ALL'` </li>  <li> `'DATA'`   </li>  <li> `'CACHE'` </li>  </ul>    **Note**: OceanBase Database in Oracle mode supports only the `'ALL'` type.  |


## Considerations

* To call this procedure, you must be the owner of the table. If the object is in the `sys` tenant, you must be the owner of the table or have the `SYSDBA` privilege.

* When statistics on a table are locked, all statistics dependent on the table are locked, including table-level statistics, column-level statistics, histogram statistics, and statistics on all dependent indexes.

* If the statistics on an object are locked, an error occurs when you execute a `SET_*`, `DELETE_*`, `IMPORT_*`, or `GATHER_*` procedure to modify the statistics on a single table, index, or column.

* When you call the `EXPORT_*_STATS` procedure, the lock or unlock status is not exported with the table statistics.

* The `UNLOCK_SCHEMA_STATS` and `UNLOCK_TABLE_STATS` procedures cannot unlock the statistics on corresponding partitions. When you call the `LOCK_TABLE_STATS` procedure, it sets a table-level lock position. In this case, you cannot collect statistics on dependent objects such as partitions and indexes. In addition, if table-level statistics are locked, the dependent objects are also locked. In this case, you do not need to explicitly call the `LOCK_PARTITION_STATS` procedure to lock partition statistics.


## Examples

Lock the table-level statistics on the `t1` table of the `testUser01` user.

```sql
obclient> CALL DBMS_STATS.LOCK_TABLE_STATS ('testUser01', 't1');
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
