| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# Upgrade an arbitration service

This topic describes how to upgrade an arbitration service using a CLI.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>You can upgrade an OceanBase cluster of V4.3.0 Beta to V4.3.1 Beta. At present, you cannot upgrade an OceanBase cluster of V4.2.x or earlier to V4.3.1 Beta. As the version evolves, upgrades from V4.2.x to V4.3.x will be supported. </p>
</main>

## Limitations

If an OceanBase cluster is associated with an arbitration service, take note of the following limitations:

* You must upgrade the arbitration service before you upgrade the OceanBase cluster.

* The new version of the arbitration server must be compatible with the versions of all associated clusters. You can check the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file for version compatibility. For example, if the `can_be_upgraded_to` attribute of version A is B, which is later than version A, version B is compatible with version A. In this case, the arbitration service of version B is compatible with the OceanBase cluster whose version is A. For information about the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file, see **Step 1: Analyze the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file** in [Upgrade an OceanBase cluster](300.start-upgrade.md).

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>You can query the <a href="../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/300.system-view-of-sys-tenant/200.dictionary-view-of-sys-tenant/15700.o-dba_ob_arbitration_service-of-sys-tenant.md">oceanbase.DBA_OB_ARBITRATION_SERVICE</a> view of the sys tenant to check whether the current OceanBase cluster is associated with the arbitration service. </p>
</main>

## Procedure

### Step 1: Confirm the upgrade process

For more information, see **Step 1: Analyze the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file** in [Upgrade an OceanBase cluster](300.start-upgrade.md) to confirm the upgrade sequence from the current version to the target version. Determine the upgrade process based on the upgrade sequence as follows:

* **When the current version cannot be directly upgraded to the target version:**

   1. Upgrade the arbitration service to the barrier version.
   2. (Optional) Upgrade all OceanBase clusters associated with the arbitration service to the barrier version.
   3. If several barrier versions are involved, repeat steps 1 and 2 until the arbitration service and the associated OceanBase clusters can be directly upgraded to the target version.
   4. Upgrade the arbitration service to the target version.
   5. Upgrade all OceanBase clusters associated with the arbitration service to the target version.

* **When the current version can be directly upgraded to the target version:**

   1. Upgrade the arbitration service to the target version.
   2. (Optional) Upgrade all OceanBase clusters associated with the arbitration service to the target version.

Here is an example:

Assume that the upgrade sequence is as follows:

* V4.1.0.0-100000982023031415 > V4.1.0.0 > V4.1.0.1 (barrier version) > V4.2.0.0
* V4.1.0.0 > V4.1.0.1 > V4.2.0.0
* V4.3.0.0 > V4.3.0.1 > V4.3.1.0

The following example describes how to upgrade a two-replica OceanBase cluster with the arbitration service.

* Scenario 1: The upgrade sequence involves barrier versions. If the current arbitration service version is V4.1.0.0-100000982023031415, the upgrade process is as follows:

   1. Upgrade the arbitration service version from V4.1.0.0-100000982023031415 to the barrier version V4.1.0.1.
   2. Upgrade the OceanBase cluster from V4.1.0.0-100000982023031415 to the barrier version V4.1.0.1.
   3. Upgrade the arbitration service to the target version V4.2.0.0.
   4. Upgrade the OceanBase cluster to the target version V4.2.0.0.

* Scenario 2: The upgrade sequence does not involve barrier versions. If the current arbitration service version is V4.3.0.0, the upgrade process is as follows:

   1. Upgrade the arbitration service version to the target version V4.3.1.0.
   2. Upgrade the OceanBase cluster to the target version V4.3.1.0.

### (Optional) Step 2: Check for downgraded log streams

If the arbitration service is not associated with any OceanBase cluster, skip this step.

Before you upgrade the arbitration service, make sure that the associated OceanBase clusters have no downgraded log streams. When an associated OceanBase cluster has a downgraded log stream, the arbitration service fails in the upgrade, resulting in the absence of the leader replica.

You can execute the following SQL statement in the sys tenant to check for downgraded log streams. If any log stream is returned, you must stop the upgrade process.

```sql
SELECT tenant_id,ls_id FROM GV$OB_LOG_STAT WHERE role = 'LEADER' AND degraded_list != "";
```

### Step 3: Upload and install the RPM package of the target version

1. Run the `scp` command to upload the OceanBase RPM package to the arbitration server.

   ```shell
   scp $rpm_name admin@$observer_ip:/$rpm_dir
   ```

   where:

   * `$rpm_name` indicates the name of the RPM package.
   * `$observer_ip` indicates the IP address of the arbitration server.
   * `$rpm_dir` indicates the directory where the RPM package is stored.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   scp oceanbase-4.2.0.0-100010022023081911.el7.x86_64.rpm admin@10.10.10.1:/home/admin/rpm
   ```

2. Install the OceanBase RPM package.

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>If the upgrade path involves multiple barrier versions, install and upgrade the versions in sequence and then install the RPM package of the target version. </p>
    </main>

   ```shell
   rpm -Uvh $rpm_name
   ```

   Here, `$rpm_name` indicates the name of the RPM package.

### Step 4: Upgrade the arbitration service

1. Log on to the arbitration server.

2. (Optional) Switch to the `admin` user.

   If you have logged on to the arbitration server as the `admin` user, skip this step.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   [root@xxx /home/admin/oceanbase/etc]# su - admin
   ```

3. Run the following command to obtain the process ID of the node.

   ```shell
   ps -ef | grep observer | grep -v grep
   ```

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   -bash-4.2$ ps -ef | grep observer | grep -v grep
   admin    103364      1 99  2022 ?        51-17:24:41 /home/admin/oceanbase/bin/observer
   ```

4. Run the following command to stop the arbitration server process.

   ```shell
   kill -9 $pid
   ```

   Here, `$pid` is the process ID of the arbitration server.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   -bash-4.2$ kill -9 103364
   ```

5. Run the following command to restart the arbitration server process.

   ```shell
   -bash-4.2$ cd /home/admin/oceanbase && /home/admin/oceanbase/bin/observer
   ```

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>You do not need to specify the startup parameters when you restart the arbitration server process because the startup parameters of the earlier version are automatically written to the parameter file. </p>
    </main>

### (Optional) Step 5: Upgrade the OceanBase cluster

If the arbitration service is not associated with any OceanBase cluster, skip this step.

For more information about how to upgrade an OceanBase cluster, see [Upgrade an OceanBase cluster](300.start-upgrade.md).

## References

* If you are using OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) to manage the OceanBase cluster and the arbitration service, you can perform the upgrade directly by following the instructions provided in the OCP console. For more information, see [Upgrade an OceanBase Cluster](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-ocp-10000000001187432) and [Upgrade an arbitration service](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-ocp-10000000001187654).
* For more information about how to upgrade an OceanBase cluster, see [Overview](100.upgrade-overview.md).