| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# Upgrade an OceanBase cluster

This topic describes how to use an upgrade script to upgrade an OceanBase cluster.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>You can upgrade an OceanBase cluster of V4.3.0 Beta to V4.3.1 Beta. At present, you cannot upgrade an OceanBase cluster of V4.2.x or earlier to V4.3.1 Beta. As the version evolves, upgrades from V4.2.x to V4.3.x will be supported. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

You have installed Python 2 and the `mysql.connector` module that is compatible with Python 2 on all OBServer nodes.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>If the OceanBase cluster is associated with the arbitration service, you must upgrade the arbitration service before you upgrade the OceanBase cluster. For more information about how to upgrade the arbitration service, see <a href="200.arbitration-services-version-upgrade.md">Upgrade an arbitration service</a>. </br>You can query the <a href="../../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/300.system-view-of-sys-tenant/200.dictionary-view-of-sys-tenant/15700.o-dba_ob_arbitration_service-of-sys-tenant.md">oceanbase.DBA_OB_ARBITRATION_SERVICE</a> view of the sys tenant to check whether the current OceanBase cluster is associated with the arbitration service. For more information, see <a href="100.upgrade-overview.md">Overview</a>. </p>
</main>

## Procedure

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>When you execute the upgrade script in the following step, you must set the <code>-u</code> parameter to a user who has read and write and <code>SUPER</code> permissions in the sys tenant. </p>
</main>

1. Analyze the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file.
2. Confirm the upgrade process.
3. Back up the cluster parameters.
4. Upload and install the RPM package of the target version.
5. Execute the `upgrade_checker.py` script.
6. Execute the `upgrade_pre.py` script.
7. Upgrade the cluster.
8. Execute the `upgrade_post.py` script.
9. Restore the cluster parameters.

### Step 1: Analyze the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file

After you decompress the OceanBase RPM package of the target version, obtain the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file, which records the version upgrade topology of OceanBase Database. Perform the following steps:

1. Obtain the RPM package of the target OceanBase Database version.

   In the upper-left corner of the OceanBase website, choose **Resources** > [Download](https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter) and choose the RPM package of the target version. If no installation package of the target version is available on the website, contact OceanBase Technical Support for help.

2. Decompress the OceanBase RPM package.

   Run the following command to decompress the OceanBase RPM package to the current directory:

   ```shell
   [xxx@xxx $rpm_dir]# sudo rpm2cpio $rpm_name | cpio -div
   ```

   Here, `$rpm_name` indicates the name of the RPM package.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>After the RPM package is decompressed, the <code>home</code> and <code>use</code> directories are generated in the directory where the RPM package is located. The upgrade script and the <code>oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml</code> file are stored in the <code>home/admin/oceanbase/etc</code> directory. </p>
    </main>

3. Analyze the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file.

   **Fields in the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file are described as follows:**

   * `version`: the version of the current OceanBase database, hereinafter referred to as the current version.
   * `can_be_upgraded_to`: the target version to which the current OceanBase Database version can be upgraded.
   * `deprecated`: indicates whether the current version can be used as the target version for upgrade. If the value is `true`, the current version cannot be used as the target version for upgrade. For example, the version `4.1.0.0-100000982023031415` in this example cannot be used as the target version.
   * `require_from_binary`: indicates whether an upgrade to the current version is required when the current version is a barrier version in the upgrade sequence.
      * `value`: This parameter is used together with `when_come_from` when the value is `true`.
      * `when_come_from`: a list of versions that require an upgrade to the current barrier version before they are upgraded to the target version. If `when_come_from` is not defined, all versions require an upgrade to the current barrier version before they are upgraded to the target version. For example, when you upgrade an OceanBase cluster of `4.0.0.0` or `4.1.0.0-100000982023031415` to V4.2.0.0, you must upgrade the cluster to V4.1.0.1 first.

   Here is an example:

   Assume that the `oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml` file defines the upgrade dependencies as follows for an OceanBase cluster:

   ```yml
   - version: 4.0.0.0
     can_be_upgraded_to:
         - 4.1.0.0

   - version: 4.1.0.0-100000982023031415
     can_be_upgraded_to:
       - 4.1.0.0
     deprecated: True

   - version: 4.1.0.0
     can_be_upgraded_to:
         - 4.1.0.1

   - version: 4.1.0.1
     can_be_upgraded_to:
         - 4.2.0.0
     require_from_binary:
       value: True
       when_come_from: [4.0.0.0, 4.1.0.0-100000982023031415]

   # 4.3.0.x
   - version: 4.3.0.0
     can_be_upgraded_to:
         - 4.3.0.1

   - version: 4.3.0.1
     can_be_upgraded_to:
         - 4.3.1.0
   ```

   Based on the file, the upgrade sequence is as follows:

   1. V4.0.0.0 > V4.1.0.0 > V4.1.0.1 (barrier version) > V4.2.0.0
   2. V4.1.0.0-100000982023031415 > V4.1.0.0 > V4.1.0.1 (barrier version) > V4.2.0.0
   3. V4.1.0.0 > V4.1.0.1 > V4.2.0.0
   4. V4.3.0.0 > V4.3.0.1 > V4.3.1.0

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>If the upgrade sequence involves barrier versions, you must also obtain the OceanBase RPM packages of all barrier versions in the upgrade path. </p>
    </main>

### Step 2: Confirm the upgrade process

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>If the upgrade sequence from the current version to the target version involves a barrier version, upgrade the OceanBase cluster to the barrier version, and then to the target version. </p>
</main>

You can obtain the following information from the upgrade sequence obtained in **Step 1**:

1. If you are upgrading an OceanBase cluster of V4.0.0.0 or V4.1.0.0-100000982023031415, you must first upgrade the cluster to V4.1.0.1 and then to V4.2.0.0.

2. If you are using an OceanBase cluster of V4.1.0.0 or V4.1.0.1, you can directly upgrade the cluster to V4.2.0.0.

3. If you are using an OceanBase cluster of V4.3.0.0 or V4.3.0.1, you can directly upgrade the cluster to V4.3.1.0.

The following example upgrades a three-replica OceanBase cluster.

* Scenario 1: The upgrade sequence involves barrier versions. If the current OceanBase cluster version is V4.0.0.0, the upgrade process is as follows:

   1. Upgrade Zone1, Zone2, and Zone3 in sequence from V4.0.0.0 to V4.1.0.1, which is the barrier version. Then, the whole cluster is upgraded to the barrier version V4.1.0.1.
   2. Upgrade Zone1, Zone2, and Zone3 in sequence from V4.1.0.1 to V4.2.0.0. The whole cluster is then upgraded to V4.2.0.0.

* Scenario 2: The upgrade sequence does not involve barrier versions. If the current OceanBase cluster version is V4.3.0.0, the upgrade process is as follows:

   Upgrade Zone 1, Zone 2, and Zone 3 in sequence from V4.3.0.0 to V4.3.1.0. Then, the whole cluster is upgraded to V4.3.1.0.

### Step 3: Back up the cluster parameters

Before the upgrade, back up the values of the following parameters, which are used for restoration after the upgrade.

* [server_permanent_offline_time](../../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/20300.server_permanent_offline_time.md)
* [enable_rebalance](../../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/2800.enable_rebalance.md)
* [enable_rereplication](../../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/8000.enable_rereplication.md)

Execute the following SQL statement in the `sys` tenant to obtain the parameters to be backed up:

```sql
SELECT SVR_IP,ZONE,NAME,VALUE FROM OCEANBASE.GV$OB_PARAMETERS WHERE NAME IN ("server_permanent_offline_time", "enable_rebalance", "enable_rereplication");
```

### Step 4: Upload and install the target RPM package

1. Run the `scp` command to upload the OceanBase RPM package to the OBServer node.

   ```shell
   scp $rpm_name admin@$observer_ip:/$rpm_dir
   ```

   where

   * `$rpm_name` indicates the name of the RPM package.
   * `$observer_ip` indicates the IP address of the OBServer node.
   * `$rpm_dir` indicates the directory where the RPM package is stored.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   scp oceanbase-4.2.0.0-100010022023081911.el7.x86_64.rpm admin@10.10.10.1:/home/admin/rpm
   ```

2. Install the OceanBase RPM package.

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p><ul><li>If the upgrade sequence involves barrier versions, install the OceanBase RPM packages of the barrier versions in the upgrade path first. Install the RPM package of the target version after the cluster is successfully upgraded to the final barrier version. </li><li>If the upgrade path involves multiple versions, install and upgrade the versions in sequence until the cluster is upgraded to the final barrier version, and then install the RPM package of the target version. </li></ul></p>
    </main>

   ```shell
   rpm -Uvh $rpm_name
   ```

   Here, `$rpm_name` indicates the name of the RPM package.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>Upgrade-related scripts and the <code>oceanbase_upgrade_dep.yml</code> file are stored in the <code>/home/admin/oceanbase/etc</code> directory. </p>
    </main>

3. Repeat steps 1 to 2 until the RPM package of the target version is installed on all OBServer nodes.

### Step 5: Execute the `upgrade_checker.py` script

On any OBServer node, specify the logon information of the `sys` tenant to directly connect to the OBServer node. Run the `upgrade_checker.py` script to perform the pre-upgrade check. If the script is successfully executed, the upgrade can proceed. The syntax of the command is as follows:

```shell
python upgrade_checker.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u $user_name@sys -p$password
```

where

* `$user_name` indicates a user that has the permissions to read, write, and modify global system parameters in the `sys` tenant.
* `$password` indicates the user password.

Here is an example:

1. Switch to the `/home/admin/oceanbase/etc` directory.

   ```shell
   cd /home/admin/oceanbase/etc
   ```

2. Execute the `upgrade_checker.py` script to perform the pre-upgrade check.

   ```shell
   [root@xxx /rpm_dir/home/admin/oceanbase/etc]# python upgrade_checker.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u xxxx@sys -p******
   ```

### Step 6: Execute the `upgrade_pre.py` script

On any OBServer node, specify the logon information of the `sys` tenant to directly connect to the OBServer node and execute the `upgrade_pre.py` script. If the script is successfully executed, the upgrade can proceed. The syntax of the command is as follows:

```shell
python upgrade_pre.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u $user_name@sys -p$password
```

where

* `$user_name` indicates a user that has the permissions to read, write, and modify global system parameters in the `sys` tenant.
* `$password` indicates the user password.

**The `upgrade_pre.py` script will execute the following commands and perform the following actions:**

1. `alter system begin upgrade`
2. `alter system begin rolling upgrade`
3. `special pre action`: to disable and adjust parameters.
4. `health check`: to perform a cluster-level health check.

Complete capabilities of the `upgrade_pre.py` script:

```shell
./upgrade_pre.py [OPTIONS]

-I, --help          Display this help and exit.
-V, --version       Output version information and exit.
-h, --host=name     Connect to host.
-P, --port=name     Port number to use for connection.
-u, --user=name     User for login.
-p, --password=name Password to use when connecting to server. If password is
                    not given it's empty string "".
-t, --timeout=name  Cmd/Query execute timeout(s).
-m, --module=name   Modules to run. Modules should be a string combined by some of
                    the following strings:
                    1. begin_upgrade
                    2. begin_rolling_upgrade
                    3. special_action
                    4. health_check
                    5. all: "all" represents that all modules should be run.
                    They are splitted by ",".
                    For example: -m all, or --module=begin_upgrade,begin_rolling_upgrade,special_action
-l, --log-file=name Log file path. If log file path is not given it's ./upgrade_pre.log


Maybe you want to run cmd like that:
./upgrade_pre.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u ******  -p ******
```

Here is an example:

1. Switch to the `/home/admin/oceanbase/etc` directory.

   ```shell
   cd /home/admin/oceanbase/etc
   ```

2. Execute the `upgrade_pre.py` script for pre-upgrade checks.

   ```shell
   [root@xxx /rpm_dir/home/admin/oceanbase/etc]# python upgrade_pre.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u xxxx@sys -p******
   ```

### Step 7: Upgrade the cluster

The cluster is upgraded zone by zone. Therefore, you must perform the following steps for each zone. The following describes the upgrade procedure by taking `zone1` as an example.

1. Perform a health check at the cluster level.

   ```shell
   python upgrade_health_checker.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u $user_name@sys -p$password
   ```

   where

   * `$user_name` indicates a user that has the permissions to read, write, and modify global system parameters in the `sys` tenant.
   * `$password` indicates the user password.

   Here is an example:

   1. Switch to the `/home/admin/oceanbase/etc` directory.

      ```shell
      cd /home/admin/oceanbase/etc
      ```

   2. Execute the `upgrade_health_checker.py` script for a cluster-level health check.

      ```shell
      [root@xxx /home/admin/oceanbase/etc]# python upgrade_health_checker.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u root@sys -p******
      ```

2. Execute the `STOP ZONE` statement to stop the zone.

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>When you upgrade a standalone or single-replica OceanBase database, you do not need to execute the <code>STOP ZONE</code> statement to stop the zone. </p>
    </main>

   Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user and stop the zone with the following command, where `$zone_name` specifies the name of the zone. The syntax of the command is as follows:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM STOP ZONE '$zone_name';
   ```

   The `STOP ZONE` command will not return a success until the leader role is switched to another replica.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM STOP ZONE 'zone1';
   ```

   You can run the following SQL statement to check the zone status:

   ```sql
   obclient [(none)]> SELECT ZONE,STATUS FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_ZONES;
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +-------+----------+
   | ZONE  | STATUS   |
   +-------+----------+
   | zone1 | INACTIVE |
   | zone2 | ACTIVE   |
   | zone3 | ACTIVE   |
   +-------+----------+
   3 rows in set
   ```

3. Stop the observer processes on the OBServer nodes in the zone. Replace the binary files with those of the new database version and then restart the processes.

   Stop and then restart the observer process.

   1. Switch to the `admin` user.

      ```shell
      [root@xxx /home/admin/oceanbase/etc]# su - admin
      ```

   2. Stop the observer process.

      ```shell
      -bash-4.2$ kill -9 `pidof observer`
      ```

   3. Restart the observer process.

      ```shell
      -bash-4.2$ cd /home/admin/oceanbase && /home/admin/oceanbase/bin/observer
      ```

         <main id="notice" type='explain'>
          <h4>Note</h4>
          <p>You do not need to specify the startup parameters when you restart the arbitration server process because the startup parameters of the earlier version are automatically written to the parameter file. </p>
        </main>

4. Perform a zone-level health check.

   The logic of the zone-level health check is the same as that of the cluster-level health check and aims to verify the status of all OBServer nodes in the zone. The syntax of the command is as follows:

   ```shell
   python upgrade_health_checker.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u $user_name@sys -p$password -z '$zone_name'
   ```

   where

   * `$user_name` indicates a user that has the permissions to read, write, and modify global system parameters in the `sys` tenant.
   * `$password` indicates the user password.
   * `$zone_name` indicates the name of the zone.

   Here is an example:

   1. Switch to the `/home/admin/oceanbase/etc` directory.

      ```shell
      cd /home/admin/oceanbase/etc
      ```

   2. Execute the `upgrade_health_checker.py` script for a zone-level health check.

      ```shell
      [root@xxx /home/admin/oceanbase/etc]# python upgrade_health_checker.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u root@sys -p****** -z 'zone1'
      ```

5. Start the zone.

   Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user and start the zone with the following command, where `$zone_name` specifies the name of the zone. The syntax of the command is as follows:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM START ZONE '$zone_name';
   ```

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM START ZONE 'zone1';
   ```

6. Repeat steps 1 to 5 until the cluster is upgraded in all zones.

### Step 8: Execute the `upgrade_post.py` script

On any OBServer node, specify the logon information of `sys` tenant to directly connect to the OBServer node, and execute the `upgrade_post.py` script to complete the main upgrade operations and related checks. The syntax of the command is as follows:

```shell
python upgrade_post.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u $user_name@sys -p$password
```

where

* `$user_name` indicates a user that has the permissions to read, write, and modify global system parameters in the `sys` tenant.
* `$password` indicates the user password.

**The `upgrade_post.py` script performs the following upgrade actions:**

1. Perform a cluster-level health check.
2. `alter system end rolling upgrade`
3. Perform the `BEGIN UPGRADE` operation.
4. Adjust system variables by tenant.
5. Correct system tables by tenant.
6. Correct virtual tables and views by tenant.
7. Perform related upgrade operations by tenant.
8. Perform a self-check on internal tables by tenant.
9. Perform the `END UPGRADE` operation.
10. End the upgrade state of the cluster by using the `ALTER SYSTEM END UPGRADE` statement.
11. Enable the parameters disabled during the upgrade and perform a check.

Skip steps 3 to 5, step 7, and step 9 in the following scenarios:

1. Intra-version upgrade
2. Cross-version upgrade in which the source and target versions have the same version of data

Complete capabilities of the `upgrade_post.py` script:

```shell
./upgrade_post.py [OPTIONS]

-I, --help          Display this help and exit.
-V, --version       Output version information and exit.
-h, --host=name     Connect to host.
-P, --port=name     Port number to use for connection.
-u, --user=name     User for login.
-p, --password=name Password to use when connecting to server. If password is
                    not given it's empty string "".
-t, --timeout=name  Cmd/Query execute timeout(s).
-m, --module=name   Modules to run. Modules should be a string combined by some of
                    the following strings:
                    1. health_check
                    2. end_rolling_upgrade
                    3. tenant_upgrade
                    4. end_upgrade
                    5. post_check
                    6. all: "all" represents that all modules should be run.
                    They are splitted by ",".
                    For example: -m all, or --module=health_check,begin_rolling_upgrade
-l, --log-file=name Log file path. If log file path is not given it's ./upgrade_pre.log


Maybe you want to run cmd like that:
./upgrade_post.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u *** -p ******
```

Here is an example:

1. Switch to the `/home/admin/oceanbase/etc` directory.

   ```shell
   cd /home/admin/oceanbase/etc
   ```

2. Execute the `upgrade_post.py` script to complete the main upgrade operations and related checks.

   ```shell
   [root@xxx /home/admin/oceanbase/etc]# python upgrade_post.py -h 127.0.0.1 -P 2881 -u root@sys -p******
   ```

### Step 9: Restore the cluster parameters

Log on to the sys tenant of the cluster as the `root` user and restore the parameters backed up in **Step 3**.

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET $parameter value= $parameter_value
```

where

* `$parameter` indicates the name of the parameter.
* `$parameter_value` indicates the value of the parameter.

Here is an example:

* Restore the value of `server_permanent_offline_time`.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET server_permanent_offline_time = '3600s';
   ```

* Restore the value of `enable_rebalance`.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = 'True';
   ```

* Restore the value of `enable_rereplication`.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rereplication = 'True';
   ```

## What to do next

Verify whether the upgrade is completed. For more information, see [Check upgrade results](400.check-after-upgrade.md).

## References

* For more information about how to connect to OceanBase Database, see [Overview](../../../../../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md).
* For more information about how to start a zone, see [Start a zone](../../800.1.start-a-zone.md).
* For more information about modifying parameters, see [ALTER SYSTEM PARAMETER](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/900.alter-system-parameter-of-oracle-mode.md).