# User naming conventions

This topic describes the user naming conventions to help you standardize usernames when you create users in database operations. The naming conventions listed in this topic are for reference only.

The user naming conventions provided in this topic are categorized by user features. You can use different naming conventions based on your business needs. Non-system users in the database can be roughly divided into the following categories by feature: business object owners, application users for database access, tool users, monitoring users, data backup users, database management users, and general test users. The following sections describe the naming conventions for users of each category.

* **Business object owners**

   A business object owner is responsible for creating and maintaining objects in the database. To name a user of this type, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + data". For example, you can name an owner of the abs subsystem as "absdata".

* **Application users for database access**

   Application users for database access are mainly responsible for connecting to the database to access and operate business data. To name a user of this type, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + opr". For example, you can name an application user of the abs subsystem as "absopr".

* **Tool users**

   Many users in a database use tools, for example, users for data migration. For these users, you can name them based on the tool that they use. Sample code:
   * To name a kettle user, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + ktl". For example, you can name a kettle user of the abs subsystem as "absktl".

   * To name a sqoop user, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + sqp". For example, you can name a sqoop user of the abs subsystem as "abssqp".

* **Monitoring users**

   You can create an independent user for monitoring purposes in the database. You can name the user as "dbmonopr".

* **Data backup users**

   You can create users for backup purposes in the database. To name a user of this type, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + bak". For example, you can name a backup user of the abs subsystem as "absbak".

* **Database management users**

   A database management user is a database administrator (DBA) who manages the database. You can name the user "dbmgr". To distinguish between a production database and a test database, you can name the DBA of the test database "testmgr".

* **General test users**

   You can create a user with high privileges on database operations for test purpose. To name a user of this type, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + test". For example, you can name a test user of the abs subsystem as "abstest".

