# Query the log of a previous SQL request by using the SQL Trace feature

OceanBase Database allows you to query the complete log of a previous SQL request by using the SQL Trace feature.

To facilitate log query, you can set a log generation level in advance to reduce the number of logs generated in different modules except for the SQL module. For more information about how to set a log generation level, see [Set a log generation level](../200.log-level.md).

The procedure is as follows:

1. Enable SQL Trace.

   You can enable SQL Trace by using one of the following methods:

   * Set the session variable `ob_enable_show_trace`. This setting takes effect for all subsequent statements of the current session.

      ```sql
       obclient [test]> SET ob_enable_show_trace=ON;
      ```

   * Set the `trace_log` field in a hint. This setting takes effect only for the current statement that carries the hint. For more information about hints, see [Optimizer hints](../../../700.reference/1000.performance-tuning-guide/500.sql-optimization/400.sql-optimization/700.manage-execution-plans/100.optimizer-hint.md).

      ```sql
      obclient [test]> SELECT /*+trace_log=on*/c1 FROM t1 LIMIT 2;
      ```

2. Obtain the `trace_id` value of the log of the required SQL request.

   After you enable SQL Trace and execute an SQL request, you can use the `SHOW TRACE` statement to obtain the `trace_id` value of the log of the SQL request.

   ```sql
   obclient [test]> SHOW TRACE;
   +-------------------------------------------+----------------------------+------------+
   | Operation                                 | StartTime                  | ElapseTime |
   +-------------------------------------------+----------------------------+------------+
   | com_query_process                         | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552259 | 0.405 ms   |
   | └── mpquery_single_stmt             | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552266 | 0.386 ms   |
   |     ├── sql_compile                 | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552283 | 0.083 ms   |
   |     │   └── pc_get_plan           | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552286 | 0.025 ms   |
   |     └── sql_execute                 | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552379 | 0.242 ms   |
   |         ├── open                    | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552380 | 0.024 ms   |
   |         ├── response_result         | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552417 | 0.140 ms   |
   |         │   ├── get_das_id        | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552421 | 0.000 ms   |
   |         │   └── do_local_das_task | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552435 | 0.049 ms   |
   |         └── close                   | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552570 | 0.039 ms   |
   |             ├── close_das_task      | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552571 | 0.012 ms   |
   |             └── end_transaction     | 2023-03-22 14:30:27.552596 | 0.003 ms   |
   +-------------------------------------------+----------------------------+------------+
   12 rows in set (0.006 sec)
   ```

   The `ElapseTime` field indicates the time currently consumed for this step, in milliseconds. For example, if the `ElapseTime` field of the `pc_get_plan` step is `0.025 ms`, it indicates that OceanBase Database takes 0.025 ms to obtain an execution plan from the plan cache.
   The following part describes common operations. For more information about operation types, see the **Spans** section in [End-to-end process](../../900.daily-inspection/900.full-link-detection/200.full-link-tracking-process.md).

   * com_query_process: the query process.

   * mpquery_single_stmt: the access path of a single statement.

   * sql_compile: specifies to compile an SQL statement.

   * pc_get_plan: specifies to obtain an execution plan.

   * hard_parse: hard parsing.

   * parse: soft parsing.

   * resolve: specifies to parse the semantics of the syntax tree and generate a statement.

   * rewrite: specifies to rewrite an SQL statement.

   * optimize: specifies to perform cost-based optimization and generate execution plan logs.

   * code_generate: specifies to generate a physical execution plan based on the execution plan logs.

   * pc_add_plan: specifies to add the generated execution plan to the plan cache.

   * sql_execute: specifies to execute the physical execution plan.

   * open: specifies to open the execution plan.

   * response_result: the procedure and result of the execution plan.

   * get_das_id: specifies to obtain the ID of the DAS task.

   * do_local_das_task: specifies to execute the local DAS task.

   * px_schedule: specifies to schedule tasks based on parallel execution (PX).

   * px_task: specifies to execute PX subtasks.

   * close: specifies to close the execution plan.

   * close_das_task: specifies to close the DAS task.

   * end_transaction: specifies to end the transaction.

   * cmd_execute: specifies to execute the command.

   * cmd_open: specifies to enable the cmd plan.

   * ps_prepare: specifies to prepare the preprocess statement.

   * ps_execute: specifies to execute the preprocess statement.

   * ps_close: specifies to close the preprocess statement.

   * pl_entry: specifies to process the stored procedure.

   * pl_compile: specifies to compile the stored procedure object.

   * pc_get_pl_object: specifies to obtain the stored procedure object from the plan cache.

   * pc_add_pl_object: specifies to store the stored procedure object in the plan cache.

   * pl_execute: specifies to execute the stored procedure.

   * pl_spi_query: specifies to execute the SPI statement in the stored procedure.

   * pl_spi_prepare: the preprocessing phase of stored procedures.

   * pl_spi_execute: specifies to execute the SPI statement in the stored procedure.

   * inner_prepare: the preprocessing phase of internal SQL statements.

   * inner_execute: the execution phase of internal SQL statements.

   * inner_execute_read: specifies to read internal SQL requests.

   * inner_execute_write: specifies to write internal SQL requests.

   * inner_commit: specifies to commit an internal SQL transaction.

   * inner_rollback: specifies to roll back an internal SQL transaction.

3. Query the complete log of the SQL request in the log files by using `trace_id`.

   OceanBase Database assigns a `trace_id` value to each generated log. You can search for the `trace_id` value in the log files (`observer.log`, `election.log`, and `rootservice.log`) to obtain the complete log of the required SQL request.

   1. Obtain the `trace_id` value by using `last_trace_id()`.

      ```sql
      obclient [test]> SELECT last_trace_id() FROM DUAL;
      +-----------------------------------+
      | last_trace_id()                   |
      +-----------------------------------+
      | YB42AC1E87CC-0005F6BFDB3E2199-0-0 |
      +-----------------------------------+
      1 row in set (0.000 sec)
      ```

   2. Log on to the corresponding OBServer node and go to the directory where the log file is located.

      ```shell
      cd /home/admin/oceanbase/log
      ```

   3. Obtain the logs corresponding to the `trace_id` value and run the `grep $trace_id observer.log` command. For example, to obtain the log whose `trace_id` is `YB42AC1E87CC-0005F6BFDB3E2199-0-0`, run the following command:

      ```shell
      grep YB42AC1E87CC-0005F6BFDB3E2199-0-0  observer.log
      [2023-03-22 14:30:33.124342] [38419][T1_L0_G0][T1][YB42AC1E87CC-0005F6BFDB3E2199-0-0] {"trace_id":"0005f777-4c14-595f-508c-6681b3dac7c9","name":"pc_get_plan","id":"0005f777-4c14-59f1-5c54-a90e3ff82e85","start_ts":1679466633124337,"end_ts":1679466633124340,"parent_id":"0005f777-4c14-59ef-de27-961b48ecfdfd","is_follow":false}
      ```
