| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# GET_LOCK

## Purpose

`GET_LOCK()` tries to obtain a lock with a name given by the string `str`. When a session successfully obtains a lock with a specific name, any other sessions attempting to obtain a lock with the same name will be blocked (that is, forced to wait) until the session holding the lock releases it. 

You can use `RELEASE_LOCK()` to explicitly release a lock obtained with `GET_LOCK()`. In addition, when a session terminates, whether normally or abnormally, all locks held by the session are released implicitly. 

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>Locks obtained with <code>GET_LOCK()</code> are not released when transactions commit or roll back. </p>
</main>

## Syntax

```sql
GET_LOCK('str', timeout)
```

## Description

### Parameters

* `str`: the name of the lock. The value is a string. 
* `timeout`: the timeout period for waiting a lock to be released, in seconds. The valid values are as follows:

   * 0 or a positive number. 
   * A negative number, indicating that the session will wait indefinitely until the lock is obtained. 

### Return value

* `1`: The lock was obtained successfully. The session that called the `GET_LOCK()` function is then holding the lock. Any other attempts to obtain a lock with the same name will not succeed unless the lock is released. 
* `0`: The attempt to obtain the lock failed due to a timeout. This usually means that the lock is held by another session and not released within the timeout period. 
* `NULL`: An error occurred while attempting to obtain the lock, which may be because the memory is insufficient or the thread for obtaining the lock is forcibly terminated. 

## Examples

1. In session 1, run the following command to obtain the lock named `my_lock` in a timeout of 10s: 

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SELECT GET_LOCK('my_lock', 10);
   ```

   The return result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +-------------------------+
   | GET_LOCK('my_lock', 10) |
   +-------------------------+
   |                       1 |
   +-------------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   `1` is returned, indicating that the session has obtained the `my_lock` lock. 

2. In session 2, run the following command to obtain the lock named `my_lock` in a timeout of 10s: 

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SELECT GET_LOCK('my_lock', 10);
   ```

   The return result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +-------------------------+
   | GET_LOCK('my_lock', 10) |
   +-------------------------+
   |                       0 |
   +-------------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   `0` is returned, indicating that the attempt to obtain the `my_lock` lock failed due to a timeout. 

## References

[RELEASE_LOCK](600.release-lock-of-mysql-mode.md)
