# Upload installation packages

Before you use oat-cli to deploy OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), OceanBase Migration Service (OMS), or OceanBase Developer Center (ODC), you must upload the installation packages required for each product to the servers where oat-cli is installed.

Run `scp` commands to upload local installation packages to the `/root/t-oceanbase-antman/` directory on the servers where oat-cli is installed.

To obtain installation packages of the required versions, contact OceanBase Technical Support.

* For OCP deployment, you must upload the following installation packages to the servers where oat-cli is installed: the installation package of OCP, installation package of OBProxy for OCP MetaDB, and installation package of OceanBase for OCP MetaDB.

   In the following commands, `oat_server` indicates the IP address of the server where oat-cli is installed.

   > **Note**
   >
   > To use the Domain Name System (DNS) mode in three-node OCP deployment, you must also obtain the DNS installation package.

   ```shell
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./ocp.tar <oat_server>:/root/t-oceanbase-antman/ocp.tar
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./obproxy.tar <oat_server>:/root/t-oceanbase-antman/obproxy.tar
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./observer.tar <oat_server>:/root/t-oceanbase-antman/observer.tar
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./dns.tar <oat_server>:/root/t-oceanbase-antman/dns.tar
   ```

* For ODC deployment, you must upload an ODC image to the server where oat-cli is installed.

   In the following command, `oat_server` indicates the IP address of the server where oat-cli is installed.

   ```shell
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./odc.tar <oat_server>:/root/t-oceanbase-antman/odc.tar
   ```

* For OMS deployment, you must upload an OMS image to the server where oat-cli is installed.

   In the following command, `oat_server` indicates the IP address of the server where oat-cli is installed.

   ```shell
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./oms.tar <oat_server>:/root/t-oceanbase-antman/oms.tar
   ```
