# Direct privileges

User privileges are divided into direct and indirect privileges. Direct privileges are the system or object privileges that are granted to a user. Indirect privileges are those that are granted to roles of a user. Most operations can be performed with direct or indirect privileges. This topic describes how to grant privileges to users. 

However, direct privileges are required to perform the following operations:

* Access objects in a view when the view is created. 
* Execute statements in named PL/SQL blocks that require definer rights for execution. 

## Prerequisites

* When you grant an object privilege, you must be the owner of the object or have the privilege to be granted. For example, for `test1` to grant the `SELECT` privilege on table `t1` to `test2`, `test1` must have the `SELECT` privilege on table `t1`. In addition, you must have the `GRANT OPTION` or `GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE` privilege. 

* When you grant a system privilege or a role, you must have the privilege or role to be granted and have the `GRANT OPTION`, `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE`, or `GRANT ANY ROLE` privilege. 

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](6.view-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). If you do not have the required privileges, contact the administrator to obtain the privileges. For more information about how to view your roles, see [View roles](../../../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/5.manage-users-and-permissions/2.oracle-mode/9.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/6.view-roles-of-oracle-mode.md). 

### Usage notes

When you grant privileges, note the following information:

* When you grant multiple privileges to a user at a time, separate the privileges with commas (,). 

* After a user is granted a privilege, the privilege takes effect only after the user is reconnected to OceanBase Database. 

### Examples

* Grant system privileges

   Grant the `CREATE SEQUENCE` privilege to the `test` user. 

   ```shell
   obclient> GRANT CREATE SEQUENCE TO test;
   ```

* Grant object privileges

   Grant the `SELECT` and `UPDATE` privileges on the `emp_view` view to the `test` user. 

   ```shell
   obclient> GRANT SELECT, UPDATE ON emp_view TO test;
   ```

For more information about the `GRANT` statement, see [GRANT](../../../../../7.reference/4.development-reference/1.sql-syntax/3.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/9.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/3.dcl-of-oracle-mode/7.grant-of-oracle-mode.md). 
