# Indirect privileges

User privileges are divided into direct and indirect privileges. Direct privileges are the system or object privileges that are granted to a user. Indirect privileges are those that are granted to roles of a user. Most operations can be performed with direct or indirect privileges. 

However, direct privileges are required to perform the following operations:

* Access objects in a view when the view is created. 
* Execute statements in named PL/SQL blocks that require definer rights for execution. 

## Indirect privileges granted to roles

### Prerequisites

You must have the privileges or roles to be added and any of the following privileges: `GRANT OPTION`, `GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE`, `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE`, and `GRANT ANY ROLE`. 

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](6.view-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). If you do not have the required privilege, contact an administrator. For more information, see [Modify user privileges](../../../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/5.manage-users-and-permissions/2.oracle-mode/5.modify-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). For more information about how to view your roles, see [View roles](../../../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/9.manage-users-and-permissions/2.oracle-mode/9.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/6.view-roles-of-oracle-mode.md). 

### Examples

Grant the `role1` role the `SELECT` privilege on the `test1.tbl1` table: 

```shell
obclient> GRANT SELECT ON test1.tbl1 TO role1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

You can also add privileges to the `PUBLIC` role by using the following SQL statement:

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice:</h4>
    <p>To ensure the security of OceanBase Database, we recommend that you assign this role to a user only when the role is necessary for your business. </p>
</main>

```shell
obclient> GRANT [privilege_list] TO PUBLIC;
```

After you add a privilege to the PUBLIC role, all users in the tenant have the privilege. This means that all users can immediately perform operations that are authorized by the privilege. For more information about the `PUBLIC` role, see [Overview](../../../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/9.manage-users-and-permissions/2.oracle-mode/9.manage-roles-of-oracle-mode/1.role-management-overview-of-oracle-mode.md). 

For more information about the `GRANT` statement, see [GRANT](../../../../../7.reference/4.development-reference/1.sql-syntax/3.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/9.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/3.dcl-of-oracle-mode/17.grant-of-oracle-mode.md). 
