Tenant management variables 
================================================



Tenant variables can be classified into global variables and session-level variables. Session-level variables inherit from global variables. You can set session-level variables after a session is established. Session-level variables override global variables in a session. 

Query variables 
------------------------

The following is the syntax for querying global or session-level variables:

```sql
SHOW [GLOBAL] VARIABLES [SHOW_VARIABLES_OPTS]
SHOW_VARIABLES_OPTS:
[LIKE 'pattern' | WHERE expr]
```



Examples:

```sql
obclient> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'ob_query_timeout';

obclient> SHOW GLOBAL VARIABLES WHERE variable_name LIKE 'ob_query_timeout';
```



The SYS tenant can query the internal table `__all_virtual_sys_variable` for global variables of all common tenants. 

If you connect to the SYS tenant and then switch to a common tenant, the session-level variables obtained through a query are still the session-level variables of the SYS tenant. the global variables obtained through a query are global variables of the common tenant. 

Set variables 
----------------------

A session-level variable takes effect only on the current session. A global variable does not take effect on the current session and takes effect only on sessions established upon re-logon. 

The following is the syntax for setting a global or session-level variable:

```sql
SET [GLOBAL] VARIABLE_NAME = 'VALUE'
```



Examples:

```sql
obclient> SET ob_query_timeout = 20000000;

obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_query_timeout = 20000000;
```



For a variable whose variable type is `INT` and that returns `ON/OFF` or `True/False` for the `SHOW VARIABLE` command, you can set its value by using any of the following methods:

```sql
SET @@foreign_key_checks = ON

SET @@foreign_key_checks = 1

SET @@foreign_key
```



The preceding three methods are equivalent in setting a session-level variable. 

For more information about variables, see [System variable reference](../../../1300.reference-guide/200.system-variables/100.overview-of-system-variables.md).



