| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Overview

The `DBMS_OUTPUT` package allows you to send messages from stored procedures, packages, and triggers.

This package is mostly used for debugging and can display PL debugging information.

You can call the `PUT` or `PUT_LINE` stored procedure in the `DBMS_OUTPUT` package to put information in the buffer for other triggers, stored procedures, or packages to read. In a standalone PL subprogram or anonymous block, you can call the `GET_LINE` or `GET_LINES` stored procedure to display the buffered information.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>


## Considerations

* Messages in the buffer will be ignored if you do not call `GET_LINE`.


* Generally, you should avoid having applications call the `DISABLE` or `ENABLE` stored procedure, because this might affect the display control of external tools.



  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p><code>DBMS_OUTPUT</code> only starts sending messages as requested by a subprogram or trigger after the subprogram or trigger completes its execution. Real-time messaging between <code>DBMS_OUTPUT</code> and the client is not supported. </p>
  </main>

## Data structure

The `DBMS_OUTPUT` package defines the `CHARARR` table type and the `DBMSOUTPUT_LINESARRAY` object type, which are used with the `GET_LINES` stored procedure.

### CHARARR table type

You can use the `CHARARR` table type with the `GET_LINES` stored procedure to obtain the text submitted by the `PUT` and `PUT_LINE` stored procedures.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
TYPE CHARARR IS TABLE OF VARCHAR2(32767) INDEX BY BINARY_INTEGER;
```



### DBMSOUTPUT_LINESARRAY object type

The `DBMSOUTPUT_LINESARRAY` object type is defined outside the package. You can use it with the `GET_LINES` stored procedure to obtain the text submitted by the `PUT` and `PUT_LINE` stored procedures.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
TYPE DBMSOUTPUT_LINESARRAY IS
VARRAY(2147483647) OF VARCHAR2(32767);
```



## Subprograms

The following table describes the `DBMS_OUTPUT` subprograms supported by the current OceanBase Database version.


| **Subprogram** | **Description** |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| [DISABLE](../11100.dbms-output-oracle/200.disable-oracle.md) | Disables the output of messages.  |
| [ENABLE](../11100.dbms-output-oracle/300.enable-oracle.md) | Enables the output of messages.  |
| [GET_LINE](../11100.dbms-output-oracle/400.get-line-oracle.md) | Retrieves a line from the buffer.  |
| [GET_LINES](../11100.dbms-output-oracle/500.get-lines-oracle.md) | Retrieves a set of lines from the buffer.  |
| [NEW_LINE](../11100.dbms-output-oracle/600.new-line-oracle.md) | Terminates the line that was created with `PUT`.  |
| [PUT](../11100.dbms-output-oracle/700.put-oracle.md) | Puts some lines in the buffer.  |
| [PUT_LINE](../11100.dbms-output-oracle/800.put-line-oracle.md) | Puts a single line in the buffer.  |



