|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Integrity constraints

Integrity constraints ensure that data complies with business rules and prevent invalid data from being inserted into database tables. This topic describes how to use integrity constraints to prevent invalid data from being inserted into database tables.

In the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, a tenant can use integrity constraints to prevent invalid data from being inserted into database tables. Integrity constraints ensure that data stored in databases complies with specific business rules. If a DML statement is executed but violates an integrity constraint, the statement is rolled back, and an error message is returned. Operations on synonyms of views and tables must comply with the integrity constraints on the base tables.

The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database allows you to specify the `ENABLE` or `DISABLE` option of a constraint to specify whether the constraint takes effect.

For example, assume that you have defined an integrity constraint on the `salary` column of the `employees` table. This integrity constraint disallows the insertion of a row where the value in the `salary` column is greater than 10000 into the `employees` table. If an `INSERT` or `UPDATE` statement violates this integrity constraint, the statement is rolled back, and an error message is returned.

For more information about integrity constraints, see [Data integrity](../800.data-integrity-of-oracle-mode/100.data-integrity-overview-of-oracle-mode.md).
