# Tables with and without a primary key

OceanBase Database supports tables with and without a primary key. This topic describes primary keys and the rules for using tables with and without primary keys.

## Primary key

A primary key is a group of columns that uniquely identify a row in a database table. A primary key must meet the following criteria:

* It cannot contain a `null` or empty value.

* The values in the group of primary key columns must be unique within the entire table.

## Tables with a primary key

In OceanBase Database, tables with primary keys must meet the following criteria:

* Each table can have up to one primary key column group.

* A primary key can contain up to 64 columns, and the total length of primary key data cannot exceed 16 KB.

When a table with a primary key is created, a globally unique index is created for the primary key columns to quickly locate rows through the primary key.

In the following example, the table named `emp_table` is created, with the `emp_id` column as its primary key.

```sql
CREATE TABLE emp_table (   
  emp_id INT PRIMARY KEY,   
  emp_name VARCHAR(100),   
  emp_age INT NOT NULL
);
```

## Tables without primary keys

A table with no specified primary key is a table without a primary key. Due to the lack of a global index, `ROWID` is often used to quickly locate a row in a table without a primary key.

In the following example, the `student_table` table without a primary key is created.

```sql
CREATE TABLE student_table (   
  student_id INT NOT NULL,   
  student_name VARCHAR(100),   
  student_age INT NOT NULL
);
```

In OceanBase Database, tables without a primary key use a partition-level auto-increment column as their hidden primary key.

In OceanBase Database, a partition-level auto-increment column ensures the value uniqueness in each partition, but does not guarantee that the partition-level auto-increment column is also strictly auto incrementing when data is inserted.





