
# Overview

## Tenants

A tenant is a logical concept that represents a resource allocation unit in OceanBase Database. It is the basis for the management of database objects and resources. A tenant is a container for database objects and resources such as CPUs, memory, and I/O. In OceanBase Database, data objects of different tenants are completely isolated from each other, and each tenant is equivalent to a database instance of a conventional database. OceanBase Database supports system tenants and user tenants. A sys tenant is predefined in OceanBase Database. The sys tenant is used for management and is compatible with MySQL. A user tenant can be in Oracle or MySQL mode. A user tenant in Oracle mode is referred to as an Oracle tenant, and one in MySQL mode is referred to as a MySQL tenant.

## Users

OceanBase Database users are classified into two categories: users in a system tenant and users in a user tenant. The built-in system administrator of a system tenant is the root user. The built-in tenant administrator of a MySQL tenant is the root user. The built-in tenant administrator of an Oracle tenant is the SYS user. When you create a user, if the current session is in a system tenant, the created user belongs to the system tenant. Otherwise, the user belongs to a user tenant. Users created by the tenant administrator of a system tenant or a user tenant can log on only to the current tenant. Users in a tenant must have unique usernames. However, users in different tenants can have the same usernames. Therefore, a user is globally identified by a username and a tenant name in the username@tenant name format.

## Administrator users in Oracle mode

OceanBase Database supports three administrator roles in Oracle mode to protect database security. The three administrator roles do not apply to the MySQL mode.

In real life, the abuse of privileges may occur if all privileges are granted to one person. Likewise, to protect the security of a large database, privileges of the database system must be granted to different user roles that take different responsibilities. In this way, the user roles can restrict and supervise each other, thus ensuring the overall security of the system.

The three administrator roles are database administrator (DBA), system security officer (SSO), and auditor.

* DBA

   Each database is managed by at least one DBA. The DBA can install and upgrade the database management system, set database parameters, create database objects, grant access privileges, import and export data, and back up and recover the database. In Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, the SYS user acts as the DBA.

* SSO

   The SSO can configure audit settings for the database, define new database auditors, view audit records of the database, set security levels, scopes, and groups for the system, and define security flags for subjects and objects, thereby improving the overall security of the system. In Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, the LBACSYS user acts as the SSO.

* Auditor

   The auditor implements force access control over the system, specifies objects and operations to be audited, defines new database auditors, views and analyzes audit records, and configures system strategies and flags. After auditing is set up, almost all operations performed by users in the system can be tracked, which facilitates subsequent tracing. In Oracle mode OceanBase Database, the ORAAUDITOR user acts as the auditor.

The three administrator roles restrict each other and jointly manage the database.

## Privileges

In MySQL mode, roles are not supported and the privilege management model is simple. The logic of privilege check is the same as that in Oracle mode.

### Privilege types

* OceanBase Database supports the following two types of privileges in Oracle mode:

   * Object privileges: the privileges to operate on specific objects, such as the ALTER, SELECT, and UPDATE privileges on a table.

   * System privileges: the privileges that allow users to perform specific database operations on one or all schemas.

      The scope of a system privilege is larger than that of an object privilege.

      For more information about the privileges in Oracle mode, see [Privilege types](3.permission-of-oracle-mode/1.permission-classification-of-oracle-mode.md).

* OceanBase Database supports the following three levels of privileges in MySQL mode:

   * Administrator privileges: the privileges to manage a tenant, such as the privileges to modify system settings and access all tables.

   * Database privileges: the privileges to manage all objects in a database, such as the privileges to create, access, and delete tables in the database.

   * Object privileges: the privileges to manage a specific object, such as the privileges to access a specific table, view, or index.

      For more information about the privilege types in MySQL mode, see [Privilege types](../2.user-and-permission/2.permission-of-mysql-mode/1.permission-classification-of-mysql.md).

### Privilege delegation

Privilege delegation solves the problem due to the centralization of privileges to a limited number of authorizers. When you grant a privilege to a user by using a `WITH ADMIN OPTION` or `WITH GRANT OPTION` clause in the `GRANT` statement, you allow the user to grant the same privilege to other users. The revocation of object privileges extends to dependent users. For example, when you revoke an object privilege from User A who has delegated the object privilege to User B, the object privilege is also revoked from User B. The revocation of system privileges does not extend to dependent users.

### Roles

In Oracle mode, you can manage privileges by role. A role is a set of system and object privileges. A role can contain other roles. If you grant a role to a user, the user has all the privileges of the role. When a new tenant is created, it has three built-in roles by default:

* DBA role: This role has most system privileges.
* RESOURCE role: A user with the RESOURCE role can create database objects only in the schema of the user.
* CONNECT role: A user with the CONNECT role can only log on to the database.
* PUBLIC role: This role applies to all users in a tenant. By default, no privilege is granted to the role.

<main id="notice">
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>You can manage privileges by role only in Oracle tenants of OceanBase Database. </p>
</main>

For more information, see [Manage roles](../2.user-and-permission/3.permission-of-oracle-mode/4.roles-of-oracle-mode.md).

### Indirect privileges

User privileges are divided into direct and indirect privileges. Direct privileges are the system or object privileges that are granted to a user. Indirect privileges are those that are granted to roles of a user. Most operations can be performed with direct or indirect privileges. However, direct privileges are required to perform the following operations:

* Access objects in a view when the view is created.
* Execute statements in named PL/SQL blocks that require definer rights for execution.

<main id="notice">
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>You can grant privileges to roles only in Oracle tenants of OceanBase Database. </p>
</main>

### Privilege check

The system parses all the privileges required to execute an SQL statement and checks whether you have the corresponding privileges. When you attempt to perform a system operation but you do not have sufficient privileges, an error is returned indicating that you have insufficient privileges. When you attempt to access an object on which you do not have any privilege, an error is returned indicating that the object does not exist. If you have privileges other than the required ones on the object that you want to access, an error is returned indicating that you have insufficient privileges.
