| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# Logs

An OBServer node generates four types of logs: `observer.log`, `rootservice.log`, `election.log`, and `trace.log`. These logs are stored in the `log` directory under the working directory of the OBServer node.

Each log type, such as `observer.log`, can be further divided into the following types by the file name:

* observer.log

* observer.log.20210901123456

* observer.log.wf

* observer.log.wf.20210901123456

When the size of the `observer.log` file reaches 256 MB, it is renamed to the second type. The appended string of digits is a timestamp. For more information about the wf logs, see the description of the `enable_syslog_wf` parameter.

## Log format

* Format

   ```javascript
   [Time] Log level [Module] File:Row number [Thread ID] [0] [trace_id] [lt] [Number of discarded logs]
   ```

* Parameters

   | Parameter | Description |
   | -----|-----|
   | Time | A timestamp that indicates the date and time when the log was generated. |
   | Log level | The importance or level of the log. |
   | Module | The module or component where the log was generated. |
   | File:Row number | The source code file path and row number, which indicates the location of the source code based on which the log was generated. |
   | Thread ID | The unique identifier of the thread that generated the log. |
   | 0 | The transaction ID or other information related to the log. [0] indicates that the field value is `0`. |
   | trace_id | The trace ID of the log event. |
   | lt | A tag, which indicates the execution time of the previous log, in microseconds. |
   | Number of discarded logs | The number of logs that were discarded or were not recorded due to some reasons before the current log was generated. |

* Example

   ```javascript
   [2021-09-01 11:31:18.605433] INFO  [STORAGE] ob_pg_sstable_garbage_collector.cpp:170 [38715][0][Y0-0000000000000000-0-0] [lt=15] [dc=0] do one gc free sstable by queue(ret=0, free sstable cnt=0)
   ```

### Log levels

OceanBase Database supports the following seven log levels in ascending order: DEBUG, TRACE, WDIAG, EDIAG, INFO, WARN, and ERROR.

The ERROR log level is special. For a log at this level, the stack where the log was generated is printed. The symbol table is required to parse logs at this level.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>DEBUG logs consume a significant amount of resources. In the latest version of OceanBase Database, DEBUG logs are automatically removed during compilation in Release mode and do not take effect even if enabled. </p>
</main>

### Module

Logs can be distinguished from one another by their modules.

### Thread ID

The ID of the thread that generated a log can be used to track the thread behaviors and is useful for troubleshooting faults such as thread hanging and timeout.

### trace_id

This indicates the ID of an internal SQL statement in OceanBase Database. The default value is `Y0-0000000000000000-0-0`. `trace_id` can be used to track the execution process of an SQL statement and is an important means of troubleshooting.

## Log compaction

You can specify related parameters to configure syslog compression, including the compression algorithm, maximum disk space available for syslogs, and number of uncompressed log files for each log type. For more information, see [Log compression and decompression](../../../600.manage/800.logging/450.log-compression-and-decompression.md).

## Log decompression

You can view a compressed log file in any of the following ways: decompress it and then view its content, directly view it, or use obdiag to search for it. For more information, see [Log compression and decompression](../../../600.manage/800.logging/450.log-compression-and-decompression.md).

## Related parameters

This section describes the cluster-level parameters related to log management. The parameters must be used in the sys tenant. You can modify the parameters by using the following syntax:

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_syslog_recycle = False;
```

* **enable_syslog_recycle**

   Specifies whether to enable syslog recycling. The default value is `False`.

   After syslog recycling is enabled, redundant logs are automatically deleted. For more information about the `enable_syslog_recycle` parameter, see [enable_syslog_recycle](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/9000.enable_syslog_recycle.md).

* **enable_syslog_wf**

   Specifies whether to enable .wf logs. The default value is `True`.

   After .wf logs are enabled, logs above the WARN level of each type are copied to a .wf log file, such as `observer.log.wf`.

* **enable_async_syslog**

   Specifies whether to enable asynchronous writing of logs. The default value is `True`.

   If you set this parameter to `False`, logs are written in synchronous mode. This ensures that all logs are written before an OBServer node is shut down. However, the OBServer node performance is significantly reduced. We recommend that you set this parameter to `True`.

* **max_syslog_file_count**

   Specifies the maximum number of log files of each type. The default value is `0`. This parameter takes effect only when its value is greater than `0` and greater than or equal to the value of `syslog_file_uncompressed_count` and `enable_syslog_recycle` is set to `True`.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Although the value range of this parameter is [0, +∞), the OBServer source code specifies that the value of this parameter cannot exceed the value of the <code>MAX_LOG_FILE_COUNT</code> parameter, which is <code>10240</code>. You can set a larger value, but the <code>MAX_LOG_FILE_COUNT</code> parameter prevails. </p>
  </main>

* **syslog_io_bandwidth_limit**

   The maximum bandwidth for log I/O. The default bandwidth is 30 MB.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>When the log printing speed exceeds the limit, the following message is printed. </p>
  </main>

   ```shell
   REACH SYSLOG RATE LIMIT
   ```

* **syslog_level**

   Specifies the lowest level of the logs to print. The default value is `WDIAG`.

* **syslog_disk_size**

   The maximum disk space available for syslogs. The default value is `0M`. The disk space available for syslogs is subject to the value of `syslog_disk_size` and the actual disk space. The smaller of the two prevails. When the remaining disk space is less than 2 GB, the oldest log files are deleted. If log compression is enabled, log files are compressed when the remaining disk space is less than 4 GB.

* **syslog_compress_func**

   Specifies the compression algorithm for syslogs. The default value is `none`, which specifies to disable log compression. Supported compression algorithms are `zstd_1.0` and `zstd_1.3.8`. You can set the parameter to a supported compression algorithm to enable log compression.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Only log files suffixed with <code>.log.{timestamp}</code> are compressed. Those suffixed with <code>wf</code> and those not suffixed with <code>{timestamp}</code> are not compressed. <code>timestamp</code> indicates the time when the log file was generated. </p>
  </main>

* **syslog_file_uncompressed_count**

   Specifies the number of uncompressed syslog files. This parameter takes effect only when `syslog_compress_func` is not set to `none`. The number of uncompressed syslog files is counted separately for each log type, excluding the log files not suffixed with `{timestamp}`. The relationships between the `syslog_compress_func` parameter and the `syslog_file_uncompressed_count`, `syslog_disk_size`, and `max_syslog_file_count` parametrs are as follows:

   * When `syslog_compress_func =none` is specified:

      1. `syslog_file_uncompressed_count` is invalid.
      2. `syslog_disk_size` and `max_syslog_file_count` control the maximum number and size of log files.

   * When `syslog_compress_func !=none` is specified:

      1. `max_syslog_file_count` is invalid.
      2. When the number of log files exceeds the value of `syslog_file_uncompressed_count`, the redundant log files are compressed. When the total size of log files approaches the value of `syslog_disk_size`, the oldest log files are deleted.