# Set variables

You can set system variables to ensure that the behaviors of OceanBase Database meet your business requirements.

## Variable categories

The system variables of OceanBase Database can be categorized into global variables and session-level variables.

* A global variable is used to implement a global modification. Different users of the same database tenant share the settings of global variables. Modifications to global variables remain effective after you exit the session. In addition, modifications to a global variable do not take effect on the currently open session and take effect only after a new session is established.

* A session-level variable is used to implement a session modification. When a client is connected to the database, the database copies global variables to automatically generate session-level variables. Modifications made to session-level variables apply to the current session only.


Variables whose names start with an underscore (_) are hidden variables. For example, `_primary_zone_entity_count` is a hidden variable. Hidden parameters are used by developers only for troubleshooting or emergency O&M.

## Views related to system variables

Views related to system variables in a MySQL tenant include:

* `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.GLOBAL_VARIABLES`: records global variables in the current tenant.

* `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SESSION_VARIABLES`: records session-level variables in the current tenant.

Views related to system variables in an Oracle tenant include:

* `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE`: records global variables in the current tenant.

* `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE`: records session-level variables in the current tenant.

For more information about the views, see **System views** in **System reference**.

## Set a variable

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>A session-level variable takes effect only on the current session. A global variable does not take effect on the current session and takes effect only on sessions established upon re-logon. </li>
    <li>To set global variables, you must have the <code>SUPER</code> or <code>ALTER SYSTEM</code> privilege. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

The SQL syntax for setting global and session-level variables is as follows:

```sql
SET VARIABLE_NAME = 'VALUE'
SET GLOBAL VARIABLE_NAME = 'VALUE'
```

You can execute SQL statements to set session-level and global variables. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SET ob_query_timeout = 20000000;
obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_query_timeout = 20000000;
```

The values of some global or session-level variables are of the `INT` type and set to `ON/OFF` or `True/False` in the `SHOW VARIABLE` command. You can set these variables in the following way. Here is an example:

```sql
SET foreign_key_checks = ON;
SET foreign_key_checks = 1;
SET GLOBAL foreign_key_checks = ON;
SET GLOBAL foreign_key_checks = 1;
```

You can also set global or read-only variables when you create a tenant by using the following syntax:

```sql
CREATE TENANT [IF NOT EXISTS] tenant_name
     [tenant_characteristic_list] [opt_set_sys_var];

tenant_characteristic_list:
  tenant_characteristic [, tenant_characteristic...]

tenant_characteristic:
      COMMENT 'string'  
    | {CHARACTER SET | CHARSET} [=] charsetname
    | COLLATE [=]  collationname
    | REPLICA_NUM [=] num
    | ZONE_LIST [=] (zone [, zone...])
    | PRIMARY_ZONE [=] zone  
    | DEFAULT TABLEGROUP [=] {NULL | tablegroup}
    | RESOURCE_POOL_LIST [=](poolname [, poolname...])
    | LOGONLY_REPLICA_NUM [=] num
    | LOCALITY [=] 'locality description'

opt_set_sys_var:
  {SET | SET VARIABLES | VARIABLES} system_var_name = expr [,system_var_name = expr] ...
```

When you create a tenant, set the value of read-only variable `ob_compatibility_mode` to `mysql` or `oracle` and the value of global variable `ob_tcp_invited_nodes` to `%`. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TENANT IF NOT EXISTS test_tenant
charset='utf8mb4', replica_num=3, zone_list=('zone1','zone2','zone3'),
primary_zone='zone1;zone2,zone3', resource_pool_list=('pool1')
SET ob_compatibility_mode='oracle', ob_tcp_invited_nodes='%';
```

## Query a variable

* You can query variables by using the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement.

   The SQL syntax for querying global and session-level variables is as follows:

   ```sql
   SHOW VARIABLES [LIKE 'pattern' | WHERE expr]
   SHOW GLOBAL VARIABLES [LIKE 'pattern' | WHERE expr]
   ```

   You can execute SQL statements to query session-level and global variables. Here is an example:

   ```sql
   obclient> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'ob_query_timeout';
   obclient> SHOW VARIABLES WHERE VARIABLE_NAME = 'ob_query_timeout';
   obclient> SHOW GLOBAL VARIABLES LIKE 'ob_query_timeout';
   obclient> SHOW GLOBAL VARIABLES WHERE VARIABLE_NAME = 'ob_query_timeout';
   obclient> SHOW GLOBAL VARIABLES WHERE VARIABLE_NAME LIKE 'ob_query_timeout';
   +------------------+----------+
   | Variable_name    | Value    |
   +------------------+----------+
   | ob_query_timeout | 10000000 |
   +------------------+----------+
   1 row in set (0.00 sec)
   ```

   The following table describes the column attributes in the execution results.

   | Column name | Description |
   |---------------|-----|
   | Variable_name | The name of the variable. |
   | Value | The value of the variable. |

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>If you log on to the sys tenant and then execute the <code>ALTER SYSTEM CHANGE TENANT</code> statement to switch to a user tenant, the session-level variables obtained through a query are still the session-level variables of the sys tenant, but the global variables returned for a query are global variables of the user tenant. For more information about the <code>ALTER SYSTEM CHANGE TENANT</code> statement, see SQL Syntax. </p>
  </main>

* You can execute the `SELECT` statement to query session-level and global variables from the related views of the current tenant. The SQL syntax is as follows:

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM view_name WHERE VARIABLE_NAME = '[var name]'
   ```

   In Oracle mode, you can execute the `SELECT` statement to query session-level and global variables from the related views of the current tenant. Here is an example:

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT * FROM SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE WHERE VARIABLE_NAME = 'ob_query_timeout';
   obclient> SELECT * FROM SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE WHERE VARIABLE_NAME = 'ob_query_timeout';
   ```

   In MySQL mode, you can execute the `SELECT` statement to query session-level and global variables from the related views of the current tenant. Here is an example:

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.GLOBAL_VARIABLES WHERE VARIABLE_NAME = 'ob_query_timeout';
   obclient> SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SESSION_VARIABLES WHERE VARIABLE_NAME = 'ob_query_timeout';
   ```

## More information

For more information about the variables, see **System variables** in **System reference**.
