# Deploy OceanBase Database offline

## Terms

* Central control server

   The server that stores the installation package and cluster configuration information of OceanBase Database.

* Target server

   The server where you want to install OceanBase Database.

* OBD

   OceanBase Deployer (OBD) is a tool used to install and deploy open source software of OceanBase.

* ODP

   The abbreviation of OceanBase Database Proxy, a high-performance reverse proxy server designed for OceanBase Database.

## Prerequisites

Before you connect to OceanBase Database, make sure that the following prerequisites are satisfied:

* Your servers meet the software and hardware requirements. For more information, see [Software and hardware requirements](../2.local-deployment/1.requirements-for-software-and-hardware.md).

* In the production environment, you have checked the environment and configurations. For more information, see [Check the environment and configurations](../2.local-deployment/2.environment-and-configuration-checks.md).

## Deployment mode

This section describes a three-replica deployment mode. We recommend that you use four servers for this deployment mode:

* Deploy ODP on one server.

* Deploy the OceanBase cluster by using the other three servers.

> **Note**
>
> * Deploy your applications on the ODP server to minimize the latency of access between the applications and ODP.  You can deploy ODP on each application server. In this example, ODP is deployed only on a separate server for ease of use.
>
> * Hardware requirements of the ODP server can be different from those of servers for the deployment of OceanBase Database. The server where ODP is to be deployed requires only one CPU cure and 1 GB of memory.

### Install OBD offline

If your server does not have Internet access, you can download OBD from the official website of OceanBase Database. We recommend that you download the latest version. For more information, see [Download installation packages](https://open.oceanbase.com/softwareCenter/community). After you have downloaded the OBD installation package, copy it to your central control server.

In CentOS or RedHat, run the following command to install OBD:

```bash
yum install ob-deploy-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

In Ubuntu or Debian, run the following command to install OBD:

```bash
alien --scripts -i ob-deploy-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

### Install OBClient offline

If your server does not have Internet access, you can download OBClient from the official website of OceanBase Database. We recommend that you download the latest version. For more information, see [Download installation packages](https://open.oceanbase.com/softwareCenter/community). After you have downloaded the OBClient installation package, copy it to your central control server.

In CentOS or RedHat, run the following command to install OBClient:

```bash
yum install libobclient-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
yum install obclient-x.x.x-2.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

In Ubuntu or Debian, run the following command to install OBClient:

```bash
alien --scripts -i libobclient-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
alien --scripts -i obclient-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

### Install OceanBase Database and ODP

To ensure data security, we recommend that you switch to a non-root user before you install OceanBase Database and ODP. To install OceanBase Database and ODP, download the installation packages of OceanBase Database, OBLibs, and ODP from the official website of OceanBase Database. For more information, see [OceanBase Software Center](https://open.oceanbase.com/softwareCenter/community). After you have downloaded the required installation packages, copy them to your central control server.

Go to the directory of the installation packages and install OceanBase Database and ODP by taking the following steps:

1. Disable the remote repository.

   ```bash
   obd mirror disable remote
   ```

   You must disable the remote repository if you want to install the software offline.

   > **Notice**
   >
   > Skip this step if you install the software online in Anolis, CentOS, or RedHat.

2. Add the installation packages to the local image.

   ```bash
   obd mirror clone *.rpm
   ```

3. View the list of images.

   ```bash
   obd mirror list
   ```

4. Select a configuration file.

   * If you use standalone deployment with only one server, download the configuration file for standalone deployment (`/usr/obd/example/autodeploy/single-example.yaml`).

   * If you use distributed deployment with multiple servers, download the configuration file for distributed deployment (`/usr/obd/example/autodeploy/distributed-with-obproxy-example.yaml`).

   The sample configuration file is a configuration file for automatic deployment. During the automatic deployment of OceanBase Database, the highest specifications are configured based on simple configurations and the resources of the target server, after which OceanBase Database is automatically started.
5. Modify the configuration file.

   Take the distributed deployment of OceanBase Database and ODP as an example. Perform the following steps to modify the configuration file:

   1. Change the username and password.

      ```bash
      ## Only need to configure when remote login is required
      # user:
      #   username: your username
      #   password: your password if need
      #   key_file: your ssh-key file path if need
      #   port: your ssh port, default 22
      #   timeout: ssh connection timeout (second), default 30
      ```

   2. Modify the IP address and the `home_path`, `data_dir`, and `redo_dir` parameters of each server.

      ```bash
      oceanbase-ce:
        servers:
          - name: z1
            # Please don't use hostname, only IP can be supported
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.200
          - name: z2
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.201
          - name: z3
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.202
        global:
          # Please set devname as the network adaptor's name whose ip is  in the setting of severs.
          # if set severs as "127.0.0.1", please set devname as "lo"
          # if current ip is 192.168.1.10, and the ip's network adaptor's name is "eth0", please use "eth0"
          devname: eth0
          # The working directory for OceanBase Database. OceanBase Database is started under this directory. This is a required field.
          home_path: /home/admin/oceanbase/ob
          # The directory for data storage. The default value is $home_path/store.
          data_dir: /data/ob
          # The directory for clog, ilog, and slog. The default value is the same as the data_dir value.
          redo_dir: /redo/ob
      ```

      > **Note**
      >
      > Note that you must modify the parameter values based on your actual configuration.

   3. Configure ODP and modify the IP address and the `home_path` parameter.

      ```bash
      obproxy-ce:
        servers:
          - 172.xx.xxx.203
        global:
          # The working directory for obproxy. Obproxy is started under this directory. This is a required field.
          home_path: /home/admin/obproxy
      ```

      You can use the online YAML Checker to validate your configuration files. For more information, see [Online YAML Checker ](https://www.bejson.com/validators/yaml_editor/).

### Deploy the OceanBase cluster

Perform the following steps to deploy the OceanBase cluster:

* Deploy the OceanBase cluster.

   ```bash
   obd cluster autodeploy obtest -c distributed-with-obproxy-example.yaml
   ```

   For more information about the `obd cluster autodeploy` command, see [OBD Documentation](https://open.oceanbase.com/docs/obd-cn/V1.3.0/10000000000099589).

* View the OceanBase cluster.

   ```bash
   obd cluster list
   ```

### (Optional) Modify the cluster configuration

OceanBase Database has hundreds of parameters and some are coupled. We recommend that you do not modify parameters in the sample configuration file before you become familiar with OceanBase Database. The following example shows you how to modify a parameter and make it take effect.

```bash
# Run the `edit-config` command to enter the edit mode before you can edit the cluster configurations.
obd cluster edit-config obtest
# Change the value of the sys_bkgd_migration_retry_num parameter to 5.
# Note that the minimum value of the sys_bkgd_migration_retry_num parameter is 3.
# After you save the change and exit, OBD will inform you how to make it take effect.
# For this parameter, you only need to run the reload command to make it take effect.
obd cluster reload obtest
```

### Connect to OceanBase Database:

Run the following command to connect to OceanBase Database by using the OBClient:

```bash
obclient -h<your_ip> -P<obproxy_port> -uroot
```

You need to replace the value of `your_ip` with the IP address of the server where your OceanBase Database instance is located. By default, ODP connects to the OBClient by using Port `2883`. Use the actual port number if you have changed it.

### Create a user tenant

You must create a user tenant before you use OceanBase Database. You can run your business data only in a user tenant.

You can create a user tenant by using the following method:

* Create a user tenant by using OBD.

   ```bash
   obd cluster tenant create ${cluster_name} -n ${tenant_name}
   ```
