|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Use a DBLink to access data in a remote database


After you create a DBLink, you can use it to access objects, such as tables and views, in a remote database.

## Limitations

* Currently, MySQL tenants of OceanBase Database cannot read data from a MySQL database through DBLink. Similarly, MySQL databases cannot read data from MySQL tenants of OceanBase Database through DBLink.

* You can use a DBLink to access the following types of data in the MySQL mode of OceanBase Database:

   * Numeric types: TINYINT, SMALLINT, MEDIUMINT, INT, BIGINT, FLOAT, DOUBLE, and DECIMAL
   * Time types: DATE, TIME, YEAR, DATETIME, and TIMESTAMP
   * Character types: CHAR, VARCHAR, TINYBLOB, TINYTEXT, BLOB, TEXT, MEDIUMBLOB, LONGBLOB, and LONGTEXT
   * Other types: ENUM and SET

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Due to limitations of OBClient, when you use a DBLink to read table data, <code>ENUM</code> and <code>SET</code> columns in the remote table are treated as <code>VARCHAR</code> columns. </p>
    </main>

   For more information about the data types, see [Data types](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/100.basic-elements-of-mysql-mode/100.data-type-of-mysql-mode/100.data-type-overview-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Prerequisites

You have created a DBLink. For more information about how to create a DBLink, see [Create a DBLink](../900.manage-dblink-of-mysql-mode/100.create-a-dblink-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Access data of tables in a remote database

Execute the `SELECT... FROM table name@DBLink name` statement to access data in a table in the remote database. Here is an example:

```sql
SELECT select_expr_list
      FROM table_name@dblink_name
      WHERE where_conditions;

select_expr_list:
    table_name.*
    | table_alias_name.*
    | expr [[AS] column_alias_name]
```

where

* `select_expr_list` specifies the expressions or column names to be queried. Separate the column names with commas (,). An asterisk (\*) indicates all columns.

   * `table_name.*`: all columns in the specified table or view.

   * `table_alias_name.`: the alias of the table or view.

   * `expr [[AS] column_alias_name]`: the alias of the column or expression that you want to query. `AS` is optional.

* `table_name@dblink_name` specifies the tables to be queried in the remote database. Separate the tables with commas (,). By default, tables in the database specified when you created the DBLink are accessed. If you want to access a table in another database, you can specify the table in the SQL statement in the format of `database_name.table_name@dblink_name`.

* `where_conditions` specifies the filter condition, which is optional. Only the data that meets the condition is returned.

For more information about DBLink-related query statements, see [SELECT statement](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/8100.select-of-mysql-mode/100.select-of-mysql-mode.md).

Here is an example:

* Use a DBLink named `ob_dblink` to query data from the `tbl1` table in a remote database.

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM tbl1@ob_dblink;
   ```

* Use the DBLink to read the `tbl1` table from the remote database `test`, and perform a join with the `tbl1` table in the local database.

   ```sql
   SELECT a.c_decimal, b.c_double FROM tbl1 a, tbl1@ob_dblink b WHERE a.c_int = b.c_int;
   ```

* Use the DBLink to read the `tbl2` table from the remote database `mysql` (the remote database specified while creating the DBLink is `test`).

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM mysql.tbl2@ob_dblink;
   ```

## References

For more information about operations on DBLinks, see the following topics:

* [Create a DBLink](../900.manage-dblink-of-mysql-mode/100.create-a-dblink-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Query a DBLink](../900.manage-dblink-of-mysql-mode/200.view-a-dblink-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Drop a DBLink](../900.manage-dblink-of-mysql-mode/500.delete-a-dblink-of-mysql-mode.md)
