# Plan cache

The optimizer uses a plan cache to avoid repeatedly generating execution plans for the same SQL query.

OceanBase Database caches previously generated execution plans that can be directly used the next time the corresponding SQL statements are executed. This policy, referred to as "Optimize Once", optimizes the execution process by avoiding the repeated generation of the same plans.

A plan cache features a typical key-value pair structure, where the key is a parameterized SQL string and the value is the execution plan corresponding to the SQL statement.

Each tenant has an independent plan cache on each server to cache SQL plans processed on this server. The plan cache of OceanBase Database supports the cache of three types of SQL execution plans: local plans, remote plans, and distributed plans. An SQL statement may have all three types of execution plans cached at the same time, depending on the data to be accessed.

By default, for each type of execution plan for an SQL statement, OceanBase Database only keeps the plan generated for the first execution of the SQL statement. In some cases, however, the parameter value of an SQL statement may affect the selection of its execution plan. As a result, the plan cache reserves different execution plans for different parameter values accordingly, so that the best plan is used for each execution.

## Plan eviction

Plan eviction refers to the removal of execution plans from the plan cache to reduce memory usage. OceanBase Database supports automatic and manual eviction for the plan cache.

### Automatic eviction

Plans are automatically evicted when the memory used by the plan cache reaches the upper limit, which is the threshold to start plan eviction.

* Conditions that trigger the eviction of execution plans

   The plan caches of different tenants on different servers are checked automatically at the time interval specified by `plan_cache_evict_interval` for plan eviction when necessary. The eviction is triggered if the memory used by the plan cache exceeds the upper limit set for the tenant.

* Execution plan eviction strategy

   The most infrequently accessed plans are evicted first, and the eviction stops when the memory used by the plan cache is less than the lower limit set for plan eviction in the tenant.

* Configurations of plan eviction

   * `plan_cache_evict_interval` specifies the interval for checking whether it is necessary to evict execution plans.

   * `ob_plan_cache_percentage` specifies the percentage of the tenant memory that can be used by the plan cache. The maximum memory available for the plan cache is calculated by using the following formula: Maximum memory available for the plan cache (absolute value of the upper limit) = Maximum memory available for the tenant × ob_plan_cache_percentage/100

   * `ob_plan_cache_evict_high_percentage` specifies the percentage of the memory used by the plan cache to the maximum memory available for the plan cache to trigger plan eviction. The used memory size to trigger plan eviction is calculated by using the following formula: Used memory size (upper limit to trigger plan eviction) = Maximum memory available for the plan cache × ob_plan_cache_evict_high_percentage/100

   * `ob_plan_cache_evict_low_percentage` specifies the percentage of the memory used by the plan cache to the maximum memory available for the plan cache to stop plan eviction. This is the lower limit to stop plan eviction. This threshold is calculated by using the following formula: Used memory size (lower limit to stop plan eviction) = Absolute value of the maximum memory available for the plan cache × ob_plan_cache_evict_low_percentage/100

Assume that the memory size of a tenant is 10 GB and the following parameter settings apply:

* `ob_plan_cache_percentage`=10

* `ob_plan_cache_evict_high_percentage`=90

* `ob_plan_cache_evict_low_percentage`=50

Then:

* Absolute value of the maximum memory available for the plan cache = 10 GB × 10/100 = 1 GB

* Upper limit to trigger plan eviction = 1 GB × 90/100 = 0.9 GB

* Lower limit to stop plan eviction = 1 GB × 50/100 = 0.5 GB

The calculation results show that when the plan cache of a tenant exceeds 0.9 GB, the plan eviction is triggered. The most infrequently accessed plan is evicted first. The eviction stops when the memory used by the plan cache is less than 0.5 GB. If new plans are being generated at a speed faster than the eviction of old plans, and the absolute memory usage of the plan cache reaches 1 GB, then the plan cache stops taking in new plans until it has evicted enough plans to reduce the occupied memory size to a value smaller than 1 GB.

### Manual eviction

Manual eviction refers to the forced removal of plans from the plan cache. Currently, OceanBase Database allows you to clear the plan cache of a specific server of a tenant, or all plan caches of all servers of different tenants by executing the following SQL statement:

```sql
obclient>ALTER SYSTEM FLUSH PLAN CACHE [tenant_list] [global]
```

`tenant_list` and `global` are optional fields. The following instruction describes how they work:

* The format of `tenant_list` is `tenant = 'tenant_name, tenant_name....'`. Plan caches of all tenants are cleared if `tenant_list` is not specified. Otherwise, only plan caches of specified tenants are cleared.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Only the <code>sys</code> tenant can specify <code>tenant_list</code>. Other tenants cannot specify this parameter, meaning that they can only clear their own plan caches. If the sys tenant does not specify <code>tenant_list</code>, the plan caches of all tenants are cleared. </p>
  </main>

* If `global` is not specified, only the plan cache of the specific server is cleared. Otherwise, plan caches are cleared on all servers associated with the tenant.

## Refreshing of the plan cache

Execution plans in a plan cache may become invalid for various reasons. In this case, you need to refresh the invalid plans by deleting them from the plan cache, generating new optimal plans, and adding new plans to the plan cache.

An execution plan may become invalid and needs to be refreshed in the following scenarios:

* The corresponding SQL statement relates to changes in the schema, such as the addition of indexes and the deletion or addition of columns.

* The corresponding SQL statement relates to the recollection of table statistics.

## Use control of plan caches

You can configure system variables and hints to control the plan cache.

* Control by using system variables

   The plan cache is enabled or disabled for SQL queries when you set the value of the `ob_enable_plan_cache` variable to `TURE` or `FALSE`. The default value is `TURE`. You can set this system variable at the session or global level.

* Control by using hints

   * The hint statement `/*+ USE_PLAN_CACHE(NONE)*/` specifies not to use the plan cache.
   * The hint statement `/*+USE_PLAN_CACHE(DEFAULT)*/` specifies to use the plan cache.

## Plan cache-related views

The following views are related to the plan cache:

* The `(G)V$OB_PLAN_CACHE_STAT` view records the overall status of plan caches of the current tenant on the current or all OBServer nodes.

* The `(G)V$OB_PLAN_CACHE_PLAN_STAT` view records the status of each object cached in plan caches of the current tenant on the current or all OBServer nodes.

* The `(G)V$OB_PLAN_CACHE_PLAN_EXPLAIN` view records the physical execution plans cached in plan caches on the current or all OBServer nodes.


For more information about fields in the views, see [Plan cache views](../400.sql-optimization/300.monitor-sql-execution-performance/300.plan-cache-view.md).