# Flashback queries

OceanBase Database supports record-specific flashback queries, which allow you to obtain data of a specific historical version. You can use the `AS OF SCN` and `AS OF TIMESTAMP` clauses to perform flashback queries in Oracle mode and the `AS OF SNAPSHOT` clause to perform flashback queries in MySQL mode.

OceanBase Database allows you to set the `undo_retention` parameter for a tenant to perform a flashback query. After you set the `undo_retention` parameter, you can use the flashback query feature to obtain data of multiple versions in the time range from `T - undo_retention` to `T`. The default value of the `undo_retention` parameter is `1800`, in seconds. For more information about the `undo_retention` parameter, see [undo_retention](../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4900.undo_retention.md).

## Considerations

When you set the `undo_retention` parameter to perform a flashback query, note the following:

* If you set the `undo_retention` parameter to T0, this feature takes effect only on data generated after `T - T0`.

* If the queried table is moved to the recycle bin, you must restore it from the recycle bin before you can query data in the table.

   For more information, see [Restore objects from the recycle bin](500.recyclebin-management/400.restore-the-recyclebin-objects.md).

* Assuming that the current time is `T`, after you set the `undo_retention` parameter, if a DDL operation is performed in the time range from `T - undo_retention` to the current time, the system uses the latest data dictionary to explain the data in the table. For data generated before the DDL operation is performed, the deleted column data is changed to the deleted state, and the added column data is set to the default value.

* Flashback queries require additional storage space to retain historical data. If you increase the value of the `undo_retention` parameter, the storage space required is increased. We recommend that you observe the change of the storage space after you increase the value of the `undo_retention` parameter.

## Prerequisites

Before you set the `undo_retention` parameter to perform a flashback query, check whether multi-version minor compaction is enabled, namely whether the value of the `undo_retention` parameter is not 0. The default value of the `undo_retention` parameter is `1800`, in seconds.

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
           <h4>Note</h4>
           <p>The administrator user of a MySQL user tenant is <code>root</code> and that of an Oracle user tenant is <code>SYS</code>. </p>
      </main>


   Note that you must specify the corresponding fields in the following sample code based on your actual database configurations.

      ```shell
      obclient -h10.xx.xx.xx -P2883 -uroot@mysql -p***** -A
      ```

   For more information about how to connect to a database, see [Overview (MySQL mode)](../../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md) or [Overview (Oracle mode)](../../300.develop/200.application-development-of-oracle-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-oracle-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-oracle-mode.md).

2. Modify the value of the `undo_retention` parameter.

   For example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET undo_retention=900;
   ```

   For more information about the `undo_retention` parameter, see [undo_retention](../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4900.undo_retention.md).

## Run a flashback query in MySQL mode

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of a MySQL user tenant.

   Note that you must specify the corresponding fields in the following sample code based on your actual database configurations.

   ```shell
   obclient -h10.xx.xx.xx -P2883 -uinfo@mysql -p***** -A
   ```

   For more information, see [Overview](../../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md).

2. Perform a flashback query on a table.

   Assuming that the value of the `undo_retention` parameter is `900` and you have a table named `table1`. Specify a historical point in time by using `AS OF SNAPSHOT` and query the status and data of the table at this point in time.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SELECT * FROM table1 AS OF SNAPSHOT 1597306800000000000;
   ```

   Here, `1597306800000000000` is a timestamp, in nanoseconds. The timestamp is the time since 08:00:00 (UTC+8) on January 1, 1970. You can convert the point in time to be queried into a timestamp based on your business needs.

   For example, if you want to perform a flashback query on table data at 16:20:00 on August 13, 2020, you can convert the time as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SELECT time_to_usec('2020-08-13 16:20:00') * 1000;
   +--------------------------------------------+
   | time_to_usec('2022-01-01 00:00:00') * 1000 |
   +--------------------------------------------+
   |                        1597306800000000000 |
   +--------------------------------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

## Run a flashback query in Oracle mode

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of an Oracle user tenant.

   Note that you must specify the corresponding fields in the following sample code based on your actual database configurations.

   ```shell
   obclient -h10.xx.xx.xx -P2883 -uinfo@mysql -p***** -A
   ```

   For more information, see [Overview](../../300.develop/200.application-development-of-oracle-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-oracle-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-oracle-mode.md).

2. Perform a flashback query on a table.

   Assuming that the value of the `undo_retention` parameter is `900` and you have three tables: `table1`, `table2`, and `expr1`. The following examples show the sample code for flashback queries in Oracle mode.

   * Specify a historical point in time by using `TIMESTAMP` and query the status and data of a single table at this point in time:

      ```shell
      obclient [SYS]> SELECT * FROM table1 AS OF TIMESTAMP TO_TIMESTAMP('2020-08-13 16:20:00','yyyy-mm-dd hh24:mi:ss');
      ```

   * Specify a historical point in time by using `TIMESTAMP` and query the status and data of the multiple tables at this point in time:

      ```shell
      obclient [SYS]> SELECT * FROM table1 AS OF TIMESTAMP expr1,table2 AS OF TIMESTAMP TO_TIMESTAMP('2020-08-13 16:20:00','yyyy-mm-dd hh24:mi:ss');
      ```

   * Specify a historical point in time by using `SCN` and query the status and data of a single table at this point in time:

      ```shell
      obclient [SYS]> SELECT * FROM table1 AS OF SCN 1597306800000000000;
      ```

      Here, `1597306800000000000` is a timestamp, in nanoseconds. The timestamp is the time since 08:00:00 (UTC+8) on January 1, 1970. You can convert the point in time to be queried into a timestamp based on your business needs.

      For example, if you want to perform a flashback query on table data at 16:20:00 on August 13, 2020, you can convert the time as follows:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> SELECT (to_date('2020-08-13 16:20:00','yyyy-mm-dd hh24:mi:ss') - to_date('1970-01-01 08:00:00', 'yyyy-mm-dd hh24:mi:ss')) * 86400 * 1000 * 1000 * 1000 AS unix_nsec_timestamp FROM DUAL;
      +---------------------+
      | UNIX_NSEC_TIMESTAMP |
      +---------------------+
      | 1597306800000000000 |
      +---------------------+
      1 row in set
      ```
