# Manually deploy OBAgent

You can deploy OBAgent manually or by using OceanBase Deployer (OBD). To manually deploy OBAgent, you must configure OBAgent and Prometheus. You can also configure Prometheus Alertmanager as needed. This topic describes how to manually deploy OBAgent.

## Prerequisites

To deploy OBAgent, ensure that the following requirements are met:

* You have deployed and started OceanBase Database.
* The default ports 8088 and 8089 of OBAgent are not occupied. You can also define custom ports.

## Procedure

### Step 1: Deploy OBAgent

1. Install OBAgent. 
   For more information, see [Install OBAgent](100.install-obagent.md).

2. Modify the configuration files. 
   For more information, see [monagent configuration file](../200.configuration-reference/200.monagent-configuration-file.md) and [KV configuration files](../200.configuration-reference/100.kv-configuration-file.md).

3. Start OBAgent.

   ```shell
   # Switch to the directory where OBAgent is installed.
   cd /home/admin/obagent/bin
   # Start the monagent process.
   ./ob_agentctl start
   ```

### (Optional) Step 2: Deploy Prometheus

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>To perform this operation, you must first install Prometheus. </p>
  </main>

1. Configure Prometheus. 
   For more information, see [Prometheus configuration file](../200.configuration-reference/300.prometheus-configuration-file.md).
2. Copy the configured Prometheus configuration file to the host where Prometheus is deployed and run the following command to start Prometheus:

   ```shell
   ./prometheus --config.file=./prometheus.yaml
   ```

### (Optional) Step 3: Deploy Prometheus Alertmanager

1. Download and decompress the installation package of the Prometheus Alertmanager.
2. Start the Prometheus Alertmanager.
3. Configure Prometheus Alertmanager. 
   For more information, see [Prometheus documentation](https://www.prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/configuration/).

OBAgent provides default alert rules. The configuration files are located in `conf/prometheus_config/rules`. The `host_rules.yaml` file stores alert rules for the server, and the `ob_rules.yaml` file stores alert rules for OceanBase Database. If the default alert rules cannot meet your needs, you can customize the rules by using the following method:

```shell
# To add custom alert rules to the Prometheus configuration file, you must place the configuration file in the conf/prometheus_config/rules directory and name it in the *rule.yaml format.

groups:
- name: node-alert
    rules:
    - alert: disk-full
    expr: 100 - ((node_filesystem_avail_bytes{mountpoint="/",fstype=~"ext4|xfs"} * 100) / node_filesystem_size_bytes {mountpoint="/",fstype=~"ext4|xfs"}) > 80
    for: 1m
    labels:
        severity: page
    annotations:
        summary: "{{ $labels.instance }} disk full "
        description: "{{ $labels.instance }} disk > {{ $value }}  "
```

## (Optional) Step 4: Deploy and configure Grafana

1. Download and decompress the installation package of Grafana.
2. Start Grafana.

   ```shell
   ./bin/grafana-server
   ```

3. Log on to Grafana and change the password. 
   The default account and password are both `admin` at initial logon.
4. Configure Prometheus as the data source. 
   For more information about how to add a data source, see the "[Add a data source](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v7.5/datasources/add-a-data-source/)" topic in Grafana documentation.
5. Import the dashboard. 
   The metric configurations for OceanBase Database and the server are published in Grafana, with the configuration IDs of `15215` and `15216`, respectively. For more information about how to import the dashboard, see the "[Export and import](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v7.5/dashboards/export-import/)" topic in Grafana documentation.

## (Optional) Step 5: Update KV parameters

OBAgent provides an API for updating configurations. You can update KV parameters by using the ob_agentctl tool:

```shell
# You can update multiple KV parameters at a time by specifying multiple keys and values.

./ob_agentctl config -u monagent.pipeline.ob.status=active,monagent.host.ip=127.0.0.1
```
