|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Overview

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database is compatible with the triggers of MySQL 5.6. Triggers are database objects that are associated with tables and are activated when specific events occur on a table.

To be specific, a trigger can be activated when a row is inserted into, updated in, or deleted from an associated table by using a statement. For example, you can activate an `INSERT` trigger for each row inserted using the `INSERT` or `LOAD DATA` statement. If you insert two rows of data in a batch, the trigger will be activated twice.

Triggers can be set to activate before or after a triggering event. For example, you can activate a trigger before each row is inserted into the table or after each row is updated.


The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database supports the following types of triggers:

* `INSERT`: A trigger of this type is activated when you insert a row by using an `INSERT`, `LOAD DATA`, or `REPLACE` statement.

* `UPDATE`: A trigger of this type is activated when you update a row by using an `UPDATE` statement.

* `DELETE`: A trigger of this type is activated when you delete a row by using a `DELETE` or `REPLACE` statement.

The `INSERT INTO ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement is a special case in which a `BEFORE INSERT` trigger is activated for each row, followed by an `AFTER INSERT` trigger or both the `BEFORE UPDATE` and `AFTER UPDATE` triggers, based on whether the row has a duplicate key.
