|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Create a DML trigger

This topic describes how to create a trigger.

## Prerequisites

To create a trigger, you must have the following privileges:

* Privileges on the table associated with the trigger, such as `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` privileges

* `CREATE TRIGGER` privilege

* Privileges on statements to be executed after the trigger is activated

## Syntax

You can use the `CREATE` statement to create a trigger.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CREATE
    TRIGGER trigger_name
    trigger_time trigger_event
    ON tbl_name FOR EACH ROW
    [trigger_order]
    trigger_body;

trigger_time: { BEFORE | AFTER }

trigger_event: { INSERT | UPDATE | DELETE }

trigger_order: { FOLLOWS | PRECEDES } other_trigger_name
```

where

* `trigger_name` specifies the name of the trigger. The name must be unique.

* `tbl_name` specifies the name of the table for which the trigger is to be created.

* `BEFORE | AFTER` specifies whether the trigger is activated before or after the triggering event. For example, whether the trigger is activated before or after each row is inserted into the associated table.

* `INSERT | UPDATE | DELETE` specifies the triggering event.

* `FOR EACH ROW` specifies that each time when the trigger is activated, the statements defined in the trigger are executed on each row affected by the event that causes the trigger to activate.

* `FOLLOWS | PRECEDES` specifies the order of triggers. OceanBase Database allows you to associate multiple triggers of the same triggering event and activating time to the same table. By default, triggers with the same triggering event and activating time are activated in the order of their creation time. You can use `FOLLOWS` and `PRECEDES` to specify the order of the triggers. If you specify `FOLLOWS`, a new trigger is activated after the current trigger. If you specify `PRECEDES`, a new trigger is activated before the current trigger.

OceanBase Database also supports `NEW.columnName` and `OLD.columnName`.

* For an `INSERT` trigger, `NEW.columnName` specifies new data that is inserted in a `BEFORE` scenario or was inserted in an `AFTER` scenario.

   Here, `columnName` indicates a column name in the corresponding data table.

* For an `UPDATE` trigger, `OLD.columnName` specifies existing data that is updated. `NEW.columnName` specifies new data after the update.

* For a `DELETE` trigger, `OLD.columnName` specifies existing data that is deleted.

* Values in `OLD.columnName` are read-only, whereas values in `NEW.columnName` can be specified by using `SET` statements.

In addition, if you want to create a trigger that contains multiple statements, you can use the `BEGIN … END` statement to specify the start and end of the entire code block.

The `BEGIN … END` syntax is as follows:

```sql
BEGIN
[statement_list]
END
```

In the preceding syntax, `statement_list` specifies a list of one or more statements to be executed. Each statement in the list must end with a semicolon (;). A semicolon (;) indicates the end of an SQL statement. When the system detects a semicolon (;), the system determines that a statement ends, and then starts to execute the statement. In this case, the interpreter fails to find the `END` keyword that matches the `BEGIN` keyword during SQL execution. Therefore, an error is reported. To prevent the error, you can use a `DELIMITER` command to change the delimiter of a statement.

Here is a sample `DELIMITER` command:

```sql
DELIMITER new_delimiter
```

Here, `new_delimiter` specifies the delimiter of a statement. A delimiter can be a sign of one or more bytes in length. The default delimiter is a semicolon (;). You can change the semicolon (;) to another delimiter, such as a number sign (`#`).

After the `DELIMITER` command is added to the syntax, statements with semicolons (;) following the command can be executed without an error reported. This is because the system does not consider that a statement ends until it detects the specified delimiter, such as a number sign (`#`).

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>If you use the <code>DELIMITER</code> command to change the delimiter, make sure that you reset the delimiter to the semicolon (;) after the statements are executed. </p>
</main>

## Examples

* Create a trigger named `test_trg`, associate it with the `test` table, and activate the Insert trigger. The trigger serves as an accumulator to calculate the sum of the values of columns inserted into the table.

   ```sql
   obclient>CREATE TABLE test (user_id INT, user_num DECIMAL(10,2));
   Query OK, 0 rows affected

   obclient> CREATE TRIGGER test_trg BEFORE INSERT ON test
         FOR EACH ROW SET @sum = @sum + NEW.user_num;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

* Create a trigger with multiple statements.

   ```sql
   obclient>CREATE TABLE test (user_id INT, user_num DECIMAL(10,2));
   Query OK, 0 rows affected

   obclient>DELIMITER #

   obclient>CREATE TRIGGER test_trg BEFORE UPDATE ON test
                 FOR EACH ROW
                 BEGIN
                 IF NEW.user_num < 1 THEN
                 SET NEW.user_num  = 1;
                 ELSEIF NEW.user_num > 45 THEN
                 SET NEW.user_num= 45;
               END IF;
               END;#
   Query OK, 0 rows affected

   obclient>DELIMITER;
   ```

## Limitations

Triggers in MySQL mode have the following limitations:

* You can create a trigger only for a permanent table, but not for a temporary table.

* Triggers cannot use the `CALL` statement to return data to clients or use the stored procedures of dynamic SQL statements. However, stored procedures and functions can use `OUT` or `INOUT` to return data to triggers.

* Triggers cannot use clauses to start or end transactions, such as `START TRANSACTION` for starting a transaction, `COMMIT` for committing a transaction, and `ROLLBACK` for rolling back a transaction. However, triggers can roll back a transaction to a specific savepoint because this operation does not end the transaction.

* A foreign key action cannot activate a trigger.

* A trigger cannot return a value. Make sure that the trigger does not contain a statement that is used to return values. If you want to instantly stop a trigger, use a `LEAVE` statement.
