# Comments

Comments within SQL statements and database objects are specified in different ways.

## Comments within SQL statements

OceanBase Database allows you to add comments in general SQL statements by using one of the following three methods:

* Start the comment with a number sign (`#`) and end it with a line break. The comment text cannot extend to a new line.

* Start the comment with two hyphens (`--`) and end it with a line break. The comment text cannot extend to a new line.

* Start the comment with a slash and an asterisk (`/*`) and end it with an asterisk and a slash (`*/`). The comment text can span multiple lines.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>SQL statements do not support nested comments. </p>
  </main>

In particular, OceanBase Database can execute statements in `/*! */` as SQL statements. If a syntax error occurs in `/*! */`, OceanBase Database processes it as a comment by default.

The comment format is as follows:

```sql
/*![Consecutive numeric characters representing the version]<Space><Any SQL statement>*/
```

* Example 1: Create eight HASH partitions for table `t1`.

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE TABLE t1 (c1 INT PRIMARY KEY, c2 INT) /*!50100
       PARTITION BY HASH(c1) PARTITIONS 8*/;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

* Example 2: Use `ENABLE KEYS` to update non-unique indexes. During batch insertion, you can use `DISABLE KEYS` to postpone the update until all indexes are inserted.

   ```sql
   obclient> /*!ALTER TABLE t1 DISABLE KEYS */;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected


   obclient> /*!ALTER TABLE t1 ENABLE KEYS */;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

* Example 3: The `DROP IF EXISTS` syntax of PL is supported.

   ```sql
   obclient> /*!50003 DROP PROCEDURE IF EXISTS */;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

## Comments for database objects

You can use a `COMMENT` clause in a DDL statement to specify comments for a database object. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl1(pk INT PRIMARY KEY COMMENT 'primary key');
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
