# Set log synchronization compression

During the log synchronization process of a standby tenant, you can enable log synchronization compression to reduce the bandwidth used for log transmission.

## Procedure

1. Log in to the standby tenant or the `sys` tenant of the cluster where the standby tenant is located, using the administrator.

2. Execute the following statement to enable log synchronization compression:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET log_transport_compress_all = value [TENANT [=] tenant_name];
   ```

   The tenant-level parameter `log_transport_compress_all` is used to determine whether to enable compression for log transmission. The default value is `False`, which means not to enable compression for log transmission. For more information about the `log_transport_compress_all` parameter, see [log_transport_compress_all](../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/5800.log_transport_compress_all.md).

   Other parameters are described as follows:

   * `SET`: This keyword is optional in MySQL mode.
   * `value`: Valid values are `True` and `False`. The default value is `False`, which means not to enable compression for log transmission.
   * `TENANT [=] tenant_name`: This parameter is used to specify the name of the target tenant. Only the `sys` tenant can set the tenant-level parameter by specifying the name of the tenant.

   An example of enabling log synchronization compression for a specified standby tenant through the `sys` tenant is as follows:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET log_transport_compress_all = True TENANT = standby_tenant;
   ```

   An example of a standby tenant enabling log synchronization compression for itself is as follows:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET log_transport_compress_all = True;
   ```

   After log synchronization compression is enabled, the system will use the compression algorithm lz4_1.0 by default to compresses logs.

3. (Optional) If you need to change the compression algorithm, execute the following statement to modify the `log_transport_compress_func` parameter:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET log_transport_compress_func = value [TENANT [=] tenant_name];
   ```
   The tenant-level parameter `log_transport_compress_func` is used to specify the compression algorithm for log transmission. The valid values of this parameter are `lz4_1.0`, `zstd_1.0`, and `zstd_1.3.8`. The default value is `lz4_1.0`. For more information about the `log_transport_compress_func` parameter, see [log_transport_compress_func](../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/5900.log_transport_compress_func.md).

   Other parameters are described as follows:

   * `SET`: This keyword is optional in MySQL mode.
   * `value`: Valid values are `lz4_1.0`, `zstd_1.0`, and `zstd_1.3.8`. The default value is `lz4_1.0`, which means that the compression algorithm lz4_1.0 will be used.
   * `TENANT [=] tenant_name`: This parameter is used to specify the name of the target tenant. Only the `sys` tenant can set the tenant-level parameter by specifying the name of the tenant.

   An example of changing the compression algorithm for a specified standby tenant through the `sys` tenant is as follows:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET log_transport_compress_func = zstd_1.0 TENANT = standby_tenant;
   ```

   An example of a standby tenant changing the compression algorithm for itself is as follows:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET log_transport_compress_func = zstd_1.0;
   ```

## References

* [View cluster parameters](../../../100.cluster-management/300.common-cluster-operations/1200.view-cluster-parameters.md)

* [Modify cluster parameters](../../../100.cluster-management/300.common-cluster-operations/1300.modify-cluster-parameters.md)
