|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Logon failure processing

In the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, for users who have multiple failed logon attempts, the system will lock the users to prevent malicious password attacks, thereby improving database security.

The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database uses a profile to lock a user.

<main id="notice" >
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This topic applies only to the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database. OceanBase Database Community Edition only supports MySQL mode. For more information about logon failure processing in MySQL mode, see <a href="../100.identification-and-authentication-of-mysql-mode/300.login-failure-handling-of-mysql-mode.md">Logon failure processing</a>. </p>
</main>

## Concepts

Profile is a means of limiting the resources available for a database user. In the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, the profile is used to control a user's logon verification policy. By using a user's profile file, it is possible to lock the user.

The profile file provides two parameters to lock the user after multiple consecutive logon failures:

* `failed_login_attempts`: the number of consecutive failed logon attempts.
* `password_lock_time`: the lock duration, in days.

The lock and unlock policies are as follows:

* Lock policy: When there are repeated failed logon attempts due to an incorrect password, if the failure threshold is reached, the user will be locked.
* Unlock policy: If a logged-on user is locked, the system will check the lock duration when the user attempts to log on again. If the lock duration has expired, the system will unlock the user and the user will attempt to log on again. If the lock duration has not expired, the system will return an error. You can also use SQL statements to unlock the user.

## Procedure

The administrator can create a profile and apply it to a user. Then, logon failures of the user will be handled based on the profile. The procedure includes the following two steps:

1. Create a profile.

   You can create a profile and specify the number of consecutive logon failures and the corresponding lockout duration by using the `CREATE PROFILE` statement.

   The SQL syntax is as follows:

   ```sql
   CREATE PROFILE "profile_name" LIMIT
     { FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS
       | PASSWORD_LOCK_TIME
       | PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME
       | PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME
       }
       { integer | UNLIMITED | DEFAULT };
   ```

   The syntax is described as follows:

   * To execute this statement, you must have the `CREATE PROFILE` privilege.

   * `FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS` specifies the number of consecutive logon failures that triggers user lockout.

      If this parameter is not specified, the setting in the `DEFAULT` profile is used. The value of this parameter in the `DEFAULT` profile is `UNLIMITED`, which indicates that the number of consecutive logon failures is not limited.

   * `PASSWORD_LOCK_TIME` specifies the number of days for which the user will be locked after the number of consecutive logon failures reaches the threshold.

      If this parameter is not specified, the setting in the `DEFAULT` profile is used. The value of this parameter in the `DEFAULT` profile is `UNLIMITED`, which indicates that the number of days for which the user will be locked is not limited.

   * `PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME` specifies the number of days during which the same password can be used for authentication.

      If this parameter is not specified, the setting in the `DEFAULT` profile is used. The value of this parameter in the `DEFAULT` profile is `UNLIMITED`, which indicates that the number of days during which the same password can be used for authentication is not limited.

   * `PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME` specifies the number of days of the grace period during which the user is still allowed to log on after a warning is issued upon the expiration of the password lifetime.

      If this parameter is not specified, the setting in the `DEFAULT` profile is used. The value of this parameter in the `DEFAULT` profile is `UNLIMITED`, which indicates that the number of days during which the user logon is valid after the password lifetime expires is not limited.

   * `integer | UNLIMITED | DEFAULT` specifies the value range of a parameter.

      * `integer` indicates that the value of the parameter is an integer.

      * `UNLIMITED` indicates that the value of the parameter is not restricted.

      * `DEFAULT` indicates that the setting in the `DEFAULT` profile is used.

   For more information about the `CREATE PROFILE` statement, see [CREATE PROFILE](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/1900.create-profile-of-oracle-mode.md).

2. Apply the profile to a user.

   There are two scenarios:

   * When creating a user, you can directly specify the profile file that has already been created.

      The SQL syntax is as follows:

      ```shell
      obclient> CREATE USER user_name IDENTIFIED BY password PROFILE
      {"profile_name" | default};
      ```

      By default, if you do not specify a profile when you create a user, the `DEFAULT` profile is used. You can query the `DBA_PROFILES` view for the settings of the `DEFAULT` profile.

      For more information about the `CREATE USER` statement, see [CREATE USER](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/2700.create-user-of-oracle-mode.md).

   * If the user has already been created, you can apply an existing profile file to the user by modifying their profile.

      The SQL syntax is as follows:

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER USER user_name PROFILE {"profile_name" | default};
      ```

      For more information about the `ALTER USER` statement, see [ALTER USER](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/1200.alter-user-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Examples

1. Log on to an Oracle tenant of a cluster as the `sys` user.

   ```shell
   obclient -usys@oracle -h127.1 -P2881 -  P*******
   ```

2. Create a profile and set up a policy for consecutive failed logons.

   Create a profile named `userprof1` and configure a policy to lock the user for one day upon five consecutive logon failures.

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE PROFILE "userprof1" LIMIT FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS 5
   PASSWORD_LOCK_TIME 1;
   ```

3. Check whether the setting was successful.

   ```shell
   obclient> SELECT * FROM DBA_PROFILES;
   +-----------+--------------------------+---------------+-------------+
   | PROFILE   | RESOURCE_NAME            | RESOURCE_TYPE | LIMIT       |
   +-----------+--------------------------+---------------+-------------+
   | DEFAULT   | FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS    | PASSWORD      | UNLIMITED   |
   | DEFAULT   | PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME      | PASSWORD      | UNLIMITED   |
   | DEFAULT   | PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME       | PASSWORD      | UNLIMITED   |
   | DEFAULT   | PASSWORD_LOCK_TIME       | PASSWORD      | 86400000000 |
   | DEFAULT   | PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION | PASSWORD      | NULL        |
   | userprof1 | FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS    | PASSWORD      | 5           |
   | userprof1 | PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME      | PASSWORD      | DEFAULT     |
   | userprof1 | PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME       | PASSWORD      | DEFAULT     |
   | userprof1 | PASSWORD_LOCK_TIME       | PASSWORD      | 86400000000 |
   | userprof1 | PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION | PASSWORD      | DEFAULT     |
   +-----------+--------------------------+---------------+-------------+
   10 rows in set
   ```

4. Create a user and specify a profile.

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE USER secuser IDENTIFIED BY ****** PROFILE "userprof1";

   obclient> GRANT all privileges ON *.* to secuser;
   ```

5. Verify the configuration result.

   If five consecutive incorrect passwords are entered, the user will be locked for one day.

   ```shell
   $ obclient -h127.1 -P2881 -usecuser@oracle -p*******;
   obclient: [Warning] Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
   ERROR 5039 (01007): User locked
   ```

   Log on to the `sys` tenant as the `root` user to view the logon failure information.

   ```shell
   obclient> SELECT * FROM information_schema.CONNECTION_CONTROL_FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS;
   +-------------+-----------------+
   | USERHOST    | FAILED_ATTEMPTS |
   +-------------+-----------------+
   | 'test'@'%' |               5 |
   +-------------+-----------------+
   1 row in set (0.005 sec)
   ```

6. Unlock the user.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>If you log on as the administrator, you can directly lock and unlock users. If you log on as a regular user, you must have the global <code>ALTER USER</code> privilege to lock and unlock users. For more information about how to view and grant user privileges, see <a href="../../../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/300.permission-of-oracle-mode/600.view-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md">View user privileges</a> and <a href="../../../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/300.permission-of-oracle-mode/200.authority-of-oracle-mode.md">Grant direct privileges</a>. </p>
    </main>

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER USER secuser ACCOUNT UNLOCK;
   ```

## Modify the logon failure processing policy

You can execute the `ALTER PROFILE` statement to modify an existing profile.

For more information about the `ALTER PROFILE` statement, see [ALTER PROFILE](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/400.alter-profile-of-oracle-mode.md).

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>You cannot unlock a user by executing the <code>ALTER PROFILE</code> statement to modify the <code>FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS</code> parameter. The changes made by using the <code>ALTER PROFILE</code> statement in a profile affect only the users in subsequent sessions and do not affect the user in the current session. </p>
</main>