# Set a log generation level

During O&M operations, O&M engineers can set a log generation level for the log module to obtain desired logs.

For the `observer.log`, `election.log`, and `rootservice.log` files, you can set a log generation level for the entire system, the current session, or the current statement. The priorities of the log generation levels set for the current statement, current session, and the entire system are in descending order.

* The log generation level set for the entire system takes effect for all OBServers in the current cluster. You can set this level only under the sys tenant.

* The log generation level set for the current session takes effect for the OBServer where the current tenant is located.

   * A session variable takes effect only on the current session.

   * A global variable does not take effect on the current session and takes effect only on sessions established upon re-logon.

* The log generation level set for the current statement takes effect for the OBServer where the current statement is executed. The level takes effect only during statement execution.

The following section describes detailed information about the preceding three modes.

* Set a log generation level for the entire system. You can use one of the following methods:

   * Use the `syslog_level` system parameter. For example, you can set the log generation level of the SQL module to `DEBUG` and that of the COMMON module to `ERROR`.

      ```sql
      obclient > ALTER SYSTEM SET syslog_level='sql.*:debug, common.*:error';
      ```

   * Run the bash `kill -41/42` $pid command in the operating system.

      In the command, `kill -41` is used to lower the level of program logs. For example, the current level of program logs is INFO. The log level is lowered to TRACE after you run the `kill -41` command.
      `kill -42` is used to raise the level of program logs. For example, the current level of program logs is INFO. The log level is raised to WARN after you run the `kill -42` command.

   We recommend that you use the `syslog_level` system parameter. This is because when OceanBase Database refreshes configurations, it loads the specified `ob_log_level` value, and thus the kill command is invalid.

* Set a log generation level for the current session.

   You can use the `ob_log_level` system parameter to set a log generation level. For example, you can set the log generation level of the SQL module to `DEBUG` and that of the COMMON module to `INFO`.

   ```sql
   obclient > SET @@ob_log_level='sql.*:debug, common.*:info';
   ```

* Set a log generation level for the current statement.

   You can use a hint to set a log generation level. For example, you can set the log generation level of the SQL module to `DEBUG` and that of the COMMON module to `INFO`. For more information about hints, see **Optimizer hints** in OceanBase Database SQL Tuning Guide.

   ```sql
   obclient > SELECT /*+log_level('sql.*:debug, common.*:info')*/ * FROM t;
   ```

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Description</h4>
    <p>If you want to execute SQL statements containing hints on a MySQL client, you must log on to the client by using the <code>-c</code> option. Otherwise, the MySQL client will remove the hints from the SQL statements as comments, and the system cannot receive the hints. </p>
  </main>

