|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database

This topic describes how to set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database and provides configuration examples.

## Parameters used to set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database

OceanBase Database provides the following parameters for you to set the maximum memory for an OceanBase database:

* `memory_limit_percentage`: specifies the percentage of maximum server memory that can be occupied by an OceanBase database.

* `memory_limit`: specifies the maximum memory for an OceanBase database. If `memory_limit` is set to `0M`, the value of `memory_limit_percentage` prevails. If `memory_limit` is set to another value, the specified absolute value is used.

## Examples

The following examples illustrate how the values of the `memory_limit_percentage` and `memory_limit` parameters affect the actual maximum memory available to OceanBase Database, with the total server memory being 100 GB.

| Example | **memory_limit_percentage** | **memory_limit** | **Maximum memory of an OceanBase database** |
|----------|-----------------------------|------------------|-----------------------|
| **Example 1** | 80 | 0M | 80 GB |
| **Example 2** | 80 | 90 GB | 90 GB |

* In Example 1, `memory_limit` is set to `0M`. Therefore, the `memory_limit_percentage` parameter determines the maximum memory of the OceanBase database, which is 100 GB × 80% = 80 GB.

* In Example 2, `memory_limit` is set to 90 GB. Therefore, the `memory_limit` parameter determines the maximum memory of the OceanBase database, which is 90 GB.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>Mainstream OceanBase Database servers are usually configured with 384 GB or 512 GB memory. We recommend that you allocate 80% of the 384 GB server memory or 90% of the 512 GB server memory to an OceanBase database. </p>
  </main>
