|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

The access control feature prevents unauthorized users from accessing database data through privilege and functional design. In terms of privilege design, OceanBase Database ensures account security by setting different authentication policies for users or roles. As different users or roles have different responsibilities, OceanBase Database's Oracle mode and MySQL mode provide different user policies and role policies, allowing users to be granted different privileges and roles. In terms of functional design, OceanBase Database maintains secure database access by setting allowlists, Label Security access policies, and so on.

## Privilege management

OceanBase Database's Oracle mode and MySQL mode provides different user policies and role policies.

For more information, see the following topics:

* [Overview](200.user-and-permission/100.user-and-permission-overview.md)

* [Privilege types in MySQL mode](200.user-and-permission/200.permission-of-mysql-mode/100.permission-classification-of-mysql.md)

* [Privilege types in Oracle mode](200.user-and-permission/300.permission-of-oracle-mode/000.permission-classification-of-oracle-mode.md)

## Network security access control

OceanBase Database provides an allowlist policy to achieve network security access control. You can use the tenant allowlist feature to set which clients are allowed to access the current tenant.

For more information about how to set an allowlist, see [Network security access control](../300.access-control/300.network-security-access-control.md).

## Row-level access control

OceanBase Database is compatible with Oracle's label security feature, which provides row-level access control to ensure the security of reading and writing data.

For more information about how to set a label security policy, see [Row-level access control](../300.access-control/400.row-level-access-control.md).

<main id="notice">
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>Currently, only the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database supports the label security feature. </p>
</main>
