|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# RPC connection authentication

## Introduction

The RPC connection authentication feature is designed to improve the security of communications over the Remote Procedure Call (RPC) protocol. When RPC connection authentication is enabled, only authenticated clients can establish RPC connections with OBServer nodes. This feature effectively blocks attackers' malicious RPC packets, preventing them from being executed by OBServer nodes and enhancing the security protection capability of OceanBase Database.

In terms of upgrade compatibility, this feature supports a gray upgrade process, allowing for smooth upgrades in stages without affecting businesses. During the upgrade process, higher and lower versions of OBServer nodes are mutually compatible. This means that a higher version client can connect to a lower version server, or the other way around. By default, RPC connection authentication is not enabled after the upgrade and needs to be manually enabled.

## Limitations

The RPC connection authentication feature in OceanBase Database V4.2.0 can only be used when the PKT-NIO framework is enabled. In other words, the `_enable_pkt_nio` parameter must be set to `True` before you enable RPC connection authentication.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>The <code>_enable_pkt_nio</code> parameter specifies whether to enable the PKT-NIO framework for RPC communications, with a default value of <code>True</code>. </p>
</main>

## Examples

### Enable RPC connection authentication

Currently, OBServer nodes provide RPC connection authentication based on SSL handshake, which can be enabled as follows.

#### Prepare SSL certificates

Create a folder named `wallet` in the installation directory and put the certificate and private key files into the folder. The certificate and private key files include three files: root certificate (`ca.pem`), certificate (`server-cert.pem`), and private key (`server-key.pem`).

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>The default installation directory is <code>/home/admin/oceanbase</code>. </li>
  <li>The <code>wallet</code> folder and the files in the folder cannot be renamed. </li>
  <li>If you have multiple servers, create a <code>wallet</code> folder in the installation directory for each server and put the certificate and private key files into the folder. </li>
  <li>Make sure that the certificate and private key files are placed in the <code>wallet</code> folder before you enable authentication. Otherwise, the authentication will fail, and the service will become unavailable. </li>
  </ul>
</main>

#### Execute SQL statements

Log on to the `sys` tenant of OceanBase Database and execute the following SQL statements:


1. Specify the SSL protocol version. 
   Currently, only TLS V1.0, TLS V1.1, TLS V1.2, and TLS V1.3 are supported. After you specify a version, the specified version and later versions are supported. For more information, see [sql_protocol_min_tls_version](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/29800.sql_protocol_min_tls_version.md).

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET sql_protocol_min_tls_version = 'TLSv1.1';
   ```
2. Enable the SSL connection. 
   For more information, see [ssl_client_authentication](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/19400.ssl_client_authentication.md).

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET ssl_client_authentication=True;
   ```

3. Set the client authentication method to `SSL_NO_ENCRYPT`.

   For more information, see [rpc_client_authentication_method](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/28100.rpc_client_authentication_method.md).

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET rpc_client_authentication_method = 'SSL_NO_ENCRYPT';
   ```

4. Set the server authentication method to `SSL_NO_ENCRYPT`.

   For more information, see [rpc_server_authentication_method](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/28200.rpc_server_authentication_method.md).

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET rpc_server_authentication_method = 'SSL_NO_ENCRYPT';
   ```

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Although setting the server authentication method to <code>ALL</code> (<code>ALTER SYSTEM SET rpc_server_authentication_method = 'ALL';</code>) can also enable authentication, it means that the server allows clients to connect without authentication, which poses a significant security risk. Therefore, this method is not recommended in production environments. </p>
    </main>

### Disable RPC connection authentication

1. Set the client authentication method to `NONE`.

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET rpc_client_authentication_method = 'NONE';
   ```

2. Set the server authentication method to `NONE` or `ALL`.

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET rpc_server_authentication_method = 'NONE';
   -- Or
   ALTER SYSTEM SET rpc_server_authentication_method = 'ALL';
   ```

## Considerations

* If you need to change the authentication method in the future, simply modify the settings again.
* After RPC connection authentication is enabled, only new RPC connections will be authenticated. To authenticate existing RPC connections, restart the nodes in batches.
