# Overview

## Comparison between a local index and a global index

A table and a local index on the table are partitioned in the same way. A global index has its independent partitioning rules, and one partition of a global index may point to multiple table partitions. Because of this, global index data and table data are not necessarily stored together in a distributed environment. This introduces costs caused by remote procedure calls (RPCs) and distributed transactions. For example, if a table partition and a global index partition are not in the same physical location, when the `TABLE SCAN` operator scans a global index, it performs an RPC to fetch table data from a remote server. Therefore, global indexes cost higher to maintain. We recommend that you design the table partitioning rules carefully, choose a reasonable partitioning key that satisfies as many query conditions as possible, and avoid using global indexes.

## Limitations

Tables in OceanBase Database are index organized tables (IOTs). For partitioned tables, to ensure that a query with a specified primary key can quickly locate a partition, the partitioning key must be a subset of the primary key. To create a local partitioned unique index on a partitioned table, you must ensure that the index contains the partitioning key of the table. This constraint does not apply to global partitioned unique indexes.

Sample code:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE test(pk int,c2 int ,c3 int, PRIMARY KEY(pk)) PARTITION BY hash(pk) partitions 5;
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx ON test(c2) LOCAL;
ERROR 1503 (HY000): A UNIQUE INDEX must include all columns in the table's partitioning function

obclient> CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx ON test(c2, pk) LOCAL;
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> DROP INDEX idx ON test;
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx ON test(c2) GLOBAL;
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
