# Overview

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) is a management platform for OceanBase Database and lets you install, upgrade, scale up, and uninstall clusters with ease. It is compatible with all major versions of the database and can manage essential resources such as hosts, networks, and software packages.

OCP is deployed in a Docker container and has the same server architecture and Linux OS requirements as OceanBase Database.

## About OCP

With OCP, you can perform O&M tasks, check the running status of your cluster, and view alerts with just a few clicks. Additionally, it offers full-lifecycle management for OceanBase clusters and tenants, leading to more efficient cluster management and reduced IT O&M costs.

OCP comes with two deployment modes: single-node deployment and high-availability deployment.

## Single-node deployment

In this deployment mode, all features of OCP, including OCP-Server, MetaDB, MonitorDB, and OBProxy, are deployed on one node.

This deployment mode has the following benefits:

- All services are deployed on one host, which minimizes the required resources.

- All requests are handled on one host without distributed processing, which facilitates log lookup and debugging.

- In this deployment mode, OCP depends on fewer services and does not require server load balancing.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Single-node deployment applies to scenarios with low availability and fast verification requirements. </p>
  </main>

## High-availability deployment

High-availability deployment is categorized into multi-cluster deployment and multi-zone deployment. In multi-cluster mode, you can deploy multiple OCP clusters across regions to manage primary and standby OceanBase clusters across cities. You can manage primary and standby OceanBase clusters across OCP clusters. For example, you can create, delete, and update primary and standby OceanBase clusters, and perform switchover and failover. This mode implements a high-availability redundancy architecture based on two IDCs.

In this deployment mode, the entire system remains available when a minority of hosts or services become unavailable.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>High-availability deployment applies to production environments with high availability requirements. </p>
  </main>
