# Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient

This topic describes the prerequisites and procedure for connecting to an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient.

## Prerequisites

* The OBClient application is downloaded and installed. To obtain the OBClient application, contact OceanBase Technical Support or click the link below:

   [Download OBClient](https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter)

* Before you connect to a tenant from a client, make sure that the client is in the allowlist of the tenant. For more information about how to query and configure a tenant allowlist, see [Set and view the tenant allowlist](../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/10.configure-and-view-the-tenant-whitelist.md). 

## Procedure

1. Open a command shell. 

2. Connect to OceanBase Database. 

   You can connect to OceanBase Database directly or by using an OBProxy. 

   * To connect to the Oracle tenant by using an OBProxy, run the following command:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uusername@obtenant#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uobdemo:obtenant:username -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      Parameters

      * `-h`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an OBProxy. 

      * `-u`: the tenant account. Two account formats are supported: `Username@Tenant name#Cluster name` and `Cluster name:Tenant name:Username`. The default administrator username of an Oracle tenant is `SYS`. 

      * `-P`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is also the listening port of the OBProxy. Default value: `2883`, which can be customized when OBProxy is deployed. 

      * `-c`: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of OBClient. 

      * `-A`: specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to an Oracle tenant. 

      * `oceanbase`: the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database. 

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u*****@obtenant#obdemo -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uobdemo:obtenant:***** -P2883 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

   * To directly connect to the MySQL tenant, run the following command:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uusername@obtenant -P2881 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

      Parameters

      * `-h`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an OBServer node. 

      * `-u`: the tenant account in the `Username@Tenant name` format. The default administrator username of an Oracle tenant is `sys`. 

      * `-P`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. Default value: `2881`, which can be customized when OceanBase Database is deployed. 

      * `-p`: the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible. 

      * `-c`: specifies that comments must not be ignored in the runtime environment of OBClient. 

      * `-A`: specifies not to automatically retrieve the statistical information when connecting to an Oracle tenant. 

      * `oceanbase`: the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database. 

      * When you use the direct connection method, make sure that the tenant resources are distributed on the OBServer node you specified. Otherwise, you cannot connect to the tenant by using this OBServer node. 

      Example:

      ```sql
      obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u******@obtenant -P2881 -p****** -c -A oceanbase
      ```

3. After the connection is established, the following command-line prompt is displayed by default: 

   ```sql
   obclient>
   ```

4. To exit the OBClient command line, enter `exit` and press **Enter**, or press the shortcut key **Ctrl** + **D**. 

## Examples

Connect to an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient: 

```sql
$obclient -h10.10.10.1 -u******@t_oracle0_91#obdoc -P2883 -p****** -c -A sys
Welcome to the OceanBase.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your OceanBase connection id is 3221686103
Server version: OceanBase 4.0.0.0 (r100000302022111120-7cef93737c5cd03331b5f29130c6e80ac950d33b) (Built Nov 11 2022 20:38:33)

Copyright (c) 2000, 2018, OceanBase and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient> SELECT SYSDATE FROM dual;
+-----------+
| SYSDATE   |
+-----------+
| 28-SEP-22 |
+-----------+
1 row in set

obclient> exit
Bye
```

## Related topics

For information about how to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database by using OBClient, see [Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient](../../1.application-development-of-mysql-mode/1.database-connection-with-client-of-mysql-mode/3.connect-to-an-oceanbase-tenant-by-using-obclient-of-mysql-mode.md). 
