# Overview

OBKV is a series of NoSQL products built based on the distributed storage engine of OceanBase Database. Currently, it supports three product forms: OBKV-Table, OBKV-HBase, and OBKV-Redis, which inherit OceanBase Database's basic capabilities of high performance, transaction processing, distributed architecture, multi-tenant, and high availability. Additionally, OceanBase Database's tool ecosystem, such as OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), OceanBase Migration Service (OMS), and OceanBase Change Data Capture (obcdc), provide native support for OBKV. You can use these tools to perform O&M operations on OBKV in different product forms as on OceanBase clusters. OBKV can help enterprises unify the technical stack, thereby simplifying database O&M while meeting the business needs for a multi-model NoSQL database.

## Models

### OBKV-Table

OBKV-Table provides capabilities such as table-based massive data read/write, global and local secondary indexes, filtering query, and time-to-live (TTL). This model applies to a massive data read/write scenario that does not involve complex queries but demands extremely high query performance.

For more information about OBKV-Table, see [Overview](../650.obkv/100.obkv-table/100.introduction-to-tableapi/100.implementation-of-tableapi.md).

### OBKV-HBase

OBKV-HBase provides wide table services compatible with HBase APIs. It can achieve data read performance several times higher than that of open source HBase at much lower costs. For more information, see [Application scenarios](../650.obkv/200.obkv-hbase/10.obkv-hbase-intro.md).

For more information about OBKV-HBase, see [Overview](../650.obkv/200.obkv-hbase/10.obkv-hbase-intro.md).

### OBKV-Redis (coming soon)

OBKV-Redis provides persistent database services compatible with the open source Redis protocol. It supports common data structures of Redis and provides massive data read/write services that do not merely rely on the memory.