|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Configure scheduled major compactions

You can specify a point in time to trigger daily major compactions.

## Prerequisites

Before a major compaction is triggered, make sure that global major compaction is enabled. Global major compaction is controlled by the cluster-level parameter `enable_major_freeze`. The default value is `True`, which specifies to enable global major compaction.

If global major compaction is disabled for the current cluster, perform the following steps to enable this feature:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Verify that global major compaction is enabled.

   ```sql
   obclient> SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'enable_major_freeze';
   ```

3. If global major compaction is not enabled, execute the following statement to enable the feature.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_major_freeze='True';
   ```

   For more information about the `enable_major_freeze` parameter, see [enable_major_freeze](../../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/7200.enable_major_freeze.md).

## Conditions for triggering a scheduled major compaction

When the system time on a day reaches the specified point in time, a major compaction is automatically triggered. You can set the `major_freeze_duty_time` parameter to specify the point in time that triggers daily major compactions or modify the point in time in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console. By default, a major compaction is triggered at `02:00` on each day.

For more information about the `major_freeze_duty_time` parameter and other major compaction parameters, see [Modify major compaction settings](../200.merge-management/700.modify-a-merge-configuration.md).

## Use an SQL statement to specify the point in time at which daily major compactions are triggered

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Modify the point in time at which daily major compactions are triggered.

   * Modify the point in time at which the daily major compaction of the current tenant is triggered

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET major_freeze_duty_time='01:00';
      ```

   * Modify the point in time at which daily major compactions of all user tenants are triggered

      If a large number of tenants exist in the system, the CPU utilization may surge at the point in time when daily major compactions of all user tenants are triggered. To address this issue, we recommend that you set different points in time at which daily major compactions are triggered for different user tenants.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET major_freeze_duty_time='01:00' TENANT = all_user;
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET major_freeze_duty_time='01:00' TENANT = all;
      ```

     <main id="notice" type='explain'>
     <h4>Note</h4>
     <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all user tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>
     </main>

   * Modify the point in time at which daily major compactions are triggered for all meta tenants

      If a large number of tenants exist in the system, the CPU utilization may surge at the point in time when daily major compactions of all meta tenants are triggered. To address this issue, we recommend that you set different points in time at which daily major compactions are triggered for different meta tenants.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET major_freeze_duty_time='01:00' TENANT = all_meta;
      ```

   * Modify the point in time at which the daily major compaction is triggered for a specified tenant

      You can specify only one tenant in the following statement. To modify the time for multiple tenants, execute the statement separately for each tenant.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET major_freeze_duty_time='01:00' TENANT = tenant1;
      ```

## References

* [Automatically trigger a major compaction](../200.merge-management/200.automatic-merge-triggering.md)

* [Manually initiate a major compaction](../200.merge-management/400.manually-trigger-a-merge.md)

* [Manually control a major compaction](../200.merge-management/500.manually-control-a-merge.md)

* [View the major compaction process](../200.merge-management/500.view-merge-process.md)
