|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Manually initiate a major compaction

You can manually initiate a major compaction. Manual major compactions include tenant-level and partition-level major compactions.

Adaptive major compactions are partition-level major compactions that are adaptively initiated by the system for partitions as needed. Like adaptive major compactions, partition-level major compactions are mainly used for data import and export, frequent DML operations, and scenarios with low query efficiency. For more information about adaptive major compactions, see [Adaptive major compactions](320.adaptive-compavtion.md). If queries become slow after you disable adaptive major compactions based on your business needs, you can manually initiate partition-level major compactions to solve the problem.

You can initiate tenant-level and partition-level major compactions in the `sys` tenant, and only tenant-level major compactions in a user tenant.

## Considerations

One partition corresponds to one tablet. When you initiate a partition-level major compaction, take note of the following considerations:

* You cannot initiate a partition-level major compaction for a partition that is undergoing a tenant-level major compaction.

* You cannot initiate a partition-level major compaction for a partition that is undergoing an adaptive major compaction.

* You cannot initiate a partition-level major compaction for a partition if multiple replicas of the partition are inconsistent.

* You cannot initiate a partition-level major compaction for a partition in the restoring or transfer state.

* You cannot initiate a partition-level major compaction when the major compaction task is suspended.

* A partition-level major compaction is essentially a major compaction on multiple replicas of the same partition. It consumes CPU and disk I/O resources. Before you initiate a partition-level major compaction, check the resource usage of the tenant. After the partition-level major compaction is completed, the CPU and I/O usage will increase.

## Prerequisites

Before a major compaction is triggered, make sure that global major compaction is enabled. Global major compaction is controlled by the cluster-level parameter `enable_major_freeze`. The default value is `True`, which specifies to enable global major compaction.

If global major compaction is disabled for the current cluster, perform the following steps to enable this feature:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Verify that global major compaction is enabled.

   ```sql
   obclient> SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'enable_major_freeze';
   ```

3. If global major compaction is not enabled, execute the following statement to enable the feature.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_major_freeze='True';
   ```

   For more information about the `enable_major_freeze` parameter, see [enable_major_freeze](../../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/7200.enable_major_freeze.md).

## Manually initiate a major compaction from the sys tenant

You can initiate a major compaction for the current tenant, all tenants, or specified tenants from the `sys` tenant.

To do so, perform the following steps:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Initiate a major compaction.

   * Initiate a tenant-level major compaction

      The SQL syntax is as follows:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE TENANT [=] all_user | all | all_meta | tenant_name [, tenant_name ...];
      ```

      Here, `[=]` indicates that the equal sign (=) is optional.

      Here are some examples:

      * Initiate a major compaction for the `sys` tenant

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE TENANT;
         ```

      * Initiate a major compaction for all user tenants from the `sys` tenant

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE TENANT = all_user;
         ```

         or

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE TENANT = all;
         ```

        <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note</h4>
        <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all user tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>
        </main>

      * Initiate a major compaction for all meta tenants from the `sys` tenant

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE TENANT = all_meta;
         ```

      * Initiate a major compaction for specified tenants from the `sys` tenant

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE TENANT = tenant1,tenant2;
         ```

   * Initiate a partition-level major compaction

      The syntax for initiating a partition-level major compaction for a specified tenant is as follows:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE TENANT [=] tenant_name TABLET_ID = tablet_id;
      ```

      You can query the `CDB_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS` view for `tablet_id` in the `sys` tenant. For more information about columns in the `CDB_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS` view, see [oceanbase.CDB_OB_TABLE_LOCATIONS](../../../700.system-views/300.system-view-of-sys-tenant/200.dictionary-view-of-sys-tenant/17700.oceanbase-cdb_ob_table_locations-of-sys-tenant.md).

      The following example shows how to initiate a partition-level major compaction for `tenant1` in the `sys` tenant:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE TENANT = tenant1 TABLET_ID = 200001;
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>The statement for initiating a partition-level major compaction is exclusive with that for initiating a tenant-level or adaptive major compaction. Successful execution of the statement does not mean that the partition-level major compaction is successfully initiated. You can check whether a partition-level major compaction is successfully initiated by querying the <code>GV$OB_MERGE_INFO</code> view for compaction information corresponding to <code>ACTION='MEDIUM_MERGE'</code> of the specified partition, or query the <code>GV$OB_TABLET_COMPACTION_HISTORY</code> view for compaction information corresponding to <code>TYPE='MEDIUM_MERGE'</code> of the specified partition. For more information, see <a href="500.view-merge-process.md">View the major compaction process</a>. </li></p>
      </main>

## Manually initiate a major compaction from a user tenant

If you are logged on to a user tenant, you can initiate only tenant-level major compactions for the current tenant.

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of a user tenant.

2. Initiate a tenant-level major compaction for the current tenant.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE;
   ```

## References

* [Automatically trigger a major compaction](../200.merge-management/200.automatic-merge-triggering.md)

* [Configure scheduled major compactions](../200.merge-management/300.scheduled-trigger-merge.md)

* [Adaptive major compactions](320.adaptive-compavtion.md)

* [Manually control a major compaction](../200.merge-management/500.manually-control-a-merge.md)

* [View the major compaction process](../200.merge-management/500.view-merge-process.md)