|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Manually control a major compaction

After you use the `MAJOR FREEZE` statement to initiate a major compaction, the system automatically schedules the major compaction task. Unlike OceanBase Database V2.X.X and V3.X.X, OceanBase Database V4.0.X uses a unified major compaction strategy to implement the major compaction process. In other words, a major compaction is performed for all zones of the tenant at the same time. When the major compaction is completed for all zones, the major compaction is considered completed for the tenant.

During the major compaction, you do not need to manually control the compaction sequence of the zones and rotating compaction is not involved. If an error occurs during the major compaction, you can manually control the major compaction. For example, if a checksum verification error occurs, the current major compaction for the tenant cannot end. In this case, you can suspend the current major compaction. After the checksum resumes normal as a result of manual intervention, you can clear the checksum error tag and resume the major compaction.

## Prerequisites

A major compaction has been initiated by using the `MAJOR FREEZE` statement. For more information about how to manually initiate a major compaction, see [Manually initiate a major compaction](../200.merge-management/400.manually-trigger-a-merge.md).

## Manually control a major compaction from the sys tenant

After a major compaction begins, you can control the major compaction for all tenants or specified tenants from the sys tenant.

To do so, perform the following steps:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Perform the following steps to control the major compaction based on the actual situation.

   * Suspend the major compaction for all user tenants, all meta tenants, or specified tenants

      You can execute the following statements to suspend the major compaction for all user tenants, all meta tenants, or specified tenants.

      * Suspend the major compaction for all user tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM SUSPEND MERGE TENANT = all_user;
         ```

         or

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM SUSPEND MERGE TENANT = all;
         ```

        <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note</h4>
        <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, the <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> settings express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>

      * Suspend the major compaction for all meta tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM SUSPEND MERGE TENANT = all_meta;
         ```

      * Suspend the major compaction for specified tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM SUSPEND MERGE TENANT = tenant1,tenant2;
         ```

      Note that the equal sign (`=`) is optional, and you must replace `tenant1` and `tenant2` with the actual tenant names.

   * Resume a major compaction

      You can resume a major compaction by execute the following statements:

      * Resume the major compaction for all user tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESUME MERGE TENANT = all_user;
         ```

         or

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESUME MERGE TENANT = all;
         ```

        <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note</h4>
        <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, the <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> settings express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>

      * Resume the major compaction for all meta tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESUME MERGE TENANT = all_meta;
         ```

      * Resume the major compaction for specified tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESUME MERGE TENANT = tenant1,tenant2;
         ```

      Note that the equal sign (`=`) is optional, and you must replace `tenant1` and `tenant2` with the actual tenant names.

   * Clear the checksum error tag

      If a checksum verification error occurs during a major compaction and is resolved after manual intervention, you can clear this checksum error tag to resume the major compaction by executing the following statements:

      * Clear the checksum error tags for all user tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM CLEAR MERGE ERROR TENANT = all_user;
         ```

         or

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM CLEAR MERGE ERROR TENANT = all;
         ```

        <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note</h4>
        <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, the <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> settings express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>

      * Clear the checksum error tags for all meta tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM CLEAR MERGE ERROR TENANT = all_meta;
         ```

      * Clear the checksum error tags for specified tenants

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM CLEAR MERGE ERROR TENANT = tenant1,tenant2;
         ```

      Note that the equal sign (`=`) is optional, and you must replace `tenant1` and `tenant2` with the actual tenant names.

## Manually control a major compaction from a user tenant

In a user tenant, you can control the major compaction of only the current tenant.

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of a user tenant.

2. Perform the following steps to control the major compaction based on the actual situation.

   * Suspend the major compaction for the current tenant

      To suspend the major compaction for the current tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SUSPEND MERGE;
      ```

   * Resume a major compaction

      After a major compaction is suspended, you can resume it.

      The syntax is as follows:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM RESUME MERGE;
      ```

   * Clear the checksum error tag

      If a checksum verification error occurs during a major compaction and is resolved after manual intervention, you can clear this checksum error tag and resume the major compaction.

      The syntax is as follows:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM CLEAR MERGE ERROR;
      ```

## References

* [Automatically trigger a major compaction](../200.merge-management/200.automatic-merge-triggering.md)

* [Configure scheduled major compactions](../200.merge-management/300.scheduled-trigger-merge.md)

* [Manually initiate a major compaction](../200.merge-management/400.manually-trigger-a-merge.md)

* [View the major compaction process](../200.merge-management/500.view-merge-process.md)
