# Geometric format conversion functions

A geometric format conversion function is used to convert geometric values in an internal geometric format into values in the WKT or WKB format, or to change the sequence of X and Y coordinates. OceanBase Database supports the following geometric format conversion functions in the current version: `ST_AsBinary()`, `ST_AsWKB`, `ST_AsText()`, and `ST_AsWKT()`. 

## ST_AsBinary and ST_AsWKB

The `ST_AsBinary()` and `ST_AsWKB()` functions convert values in an internal geometric format to their WKB representations and return binary results. Syntax:

```sql
ST_AsBinary(g [, options]), ST_AsWKB(g [, options])
```

A return value of the functions has geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) in the sequence specified by the spatial reference system (SRS) that is applied to the geometric arguments. You can specify the optional `options` argument to override the default sequence of axes. 

```sql
SELECT ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromWKB(ST_AsWKB(@geo, 'axis-order=long-lat')));
```

## ST_AsText and ST_AsWKT

The `ST_AsText()` and `ST_AsWKT()` functions convert values in an internal geometric format to their WKT representations and return string results. Syntax:

```sql
ST_AsText(g [, options]), ST_AsWKT(g [, options])
```

A return value of the functions has geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) in the sequence specified by the spatial reference system (SRS) that is applied to the geometric arguments. You can specify the optional `options` argument to override the default sequence of axes. 

```sql
obclient [test]> SET @geo = 'LINESTRING(0 6,6 12,12 18)';
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]>  SELECT ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo));
+----------------------------------+
| ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo)) |
+----------------------------------+
| LINESTRING(0 6,6 12,12 18)       |
+----------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## Notes

The return value for a geometric argument in a geometric format conversion function is non-NULL, except in the following cases:

- If any geometric argument is in an incorrect syntax format, the `ER_GIS_INVALID_DATA` error is returned. 
- If any geometric argument is in an undefined SRS, the axes are output in the sequence in which they appear in the geometry, and the `ER_WARN_SRS_NOT_FOUND_AXIS_ORDER` alert is returned. 
- By default, the geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) are resolved in the sequence specified by the SRS of the geometric argument. You can specify the optional `options` argument to override the default sequence of axes. `options` consists of a comma-separated list of `key=value` pairs. `key` can only be set to `axis-order`, and `value` can be `lat-long`, `long-lat`, or `srid-defined` (default). If `options` is `NULL`, the return value is `NULL`. If the `options` argument is invalid, an error is reported. 
