# Configure automatic scale-out of disk space for data files

OceanBase Database supports automatic scale-out of disk space available for data files based on the actual situation.

## Background information

In OceanBase Database, the files used to store data are named `block_file`. These `block_file` files are located in the `/store/sstable` directory under the installation directory of OBServer nodes. They are created after each OBServer node is started. The size of the `block_file` files is controlled by the `datafile_size` or `datafile_disk_percentage` parameter. see [Structure of the OBServer installation directory](../../100.oceanbase-database-concepts/1200.observer-node-architecture/100.observer-installation-directory-structure.md).

Prior to OceanBase Database V4.2.0, the system adopted a pre-allocation approach where a portion of disk space was reserved for data files. This ensured that the data files occupied a contiguous section of the disk space, preventing insufficient disk resources caused by other applications preempting the disk. However, this pre-allocation method occupied a significant amount of disk space, and even if the disk space was not being used, it could not be released.

To address this issue, OceanBase Database introduced several parameters for progressive disk space utilization for data files. The system first pre-allocates a reasonable disk size for the data files and then automatically scales up based on the actual disk usage and user configuration.

## Related parameters

OceanBase Database automatically scales out the disk space available for the data file on an OBServer node based on the following parameters:

* `datafile_size`: the size of disk space available for the data file. For more information about the cluster-level parameter `datafile_size`, see [datafile_size](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/5400.datafile_size.md).

* `datafile_disk_percentage`: the percentage of disk space that can be occupied by the data file. The default value is `0`. For more information about the cluster-level parameter `datafile_disk_percentage`, see [datafile_disk_percentage](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/5300.datafile_disk_percentage.md).

* `datafile_next`: the automatic scale-out step for the disk space for the data file. The default value is `0M`, indicating that automatic scale-out is disabled. To enable automatic scale-out, set the parameter to a nonzero value. For more information about the cluster-level parameter `datafile_next`, see [datafile_next](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/28500.datafile_next.md).

* `datafile_maxsize`: the maximum size of disk space allowed for automatic scale-out for the data file. The default value is `0M`, which indicates that automatic scale-out is disabled. For more information about the cluster-level parameter `datafile_maxsize`, see [datafile_maxsize](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/28400.datafile_maxsize.md).

Assume that 1 TB of disk space is required for your business volume. You can set `datafile_size` to 1 TB or calculate the value of `datafile_disk_percentage` based on the proportion of 1 TB to the total space of the disk. Then, set `datafile_maxsize` to an acceptable maximum disk size 10 TB, and set `datafile_next` to 1 TB. This way, the system automatically scales out the disk space for the data file based on the actual situation without wasting the disk space.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>If you do not want to enable automatic scale-out, you can set <code>datafile_next</code> or <code>datafile_maxsize</code> to <code>0M</code>, or retain the default value <code>0M</code>. Then, the system will reserve a part of the disk space for the data file based on the original pre-allocation mechanism. </p>
</main>

## Considerations and limitations

* When you configure automatic scale-out of disk space for the data file, we recommend that you set the initial value of `datafile_next` to 20% of the value of `datafile_maxsize`, to avoid frequent scale-out.

* When you specify a value for `datafile_maxsize`, make sure that the value is greater than the current size of the data file in the disk. If you specify a value smaller than the current size of the data file in the disk, automatic scale-out will not be triggered.

   If the value of `datafile_maxsize` exceeds the maximum available space of the current disk, the actual size of available space is used as the maximum value.

* After you enable automatic scale-out of disk space for data files, you must make a proper capacity plan for other applications deployed on the same server, and make sure that the maximum size of disk space available for scale-out is no smaller than the value of `datafile_maxsize`.

* At present, automatic scale-in of disk space for data files is not supported.

## Configure automatic scale-out of disk space for data files

This section provides three scenarios to describe how to implement automatic scale-out of disk space for the data file on an OBServer node by modifying parameter values.

### datafile_size (or datafile_disk_percentage), datafile_next, and datafile_maxsize are set when your cluster is started

For OceanBase Database Community Edition, when you modify the configuration file before you deploy an OceanBase cluster, if you set `datafile_size` (or `datafile_disk_percentage`), `datafile_next`, and `datafile_maxsize` to nonzero values, and the value of `datafile_maxsize` is greater than that of `datafile_size`, or greater than the disk size calculated based on the value of `datafile_disk_percentage`, automatic scale-out takes effect after the cluster is started. For more information about how to deploy an OceanBase cluster, see [Deploy OceanBase Database Community Edition](../../../400.deploy/500.deploy-oceanbase-database-community-edition/200.local-deployment/500.deploy-OceanBase-database-of-multi-node-cluster.md).

For OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition, when you start the observer process for the first time after you deploy an OceanBase cluster, if you set `datafile_size` (or`datafile_disk_percentage`), `datafile_next`, and `datafile_maxsize` to nonzero values, and the value of `datafile_maxsize` is greater than that of `datafile_size`, or greater than the disk size calculated based on the value of `datafile_disk_percentage`, automatic scale-out takes effect after the cluster is started. For more information about how to deploy an OceanBase cluster, see [Deploy OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition](../../../400.deploy/300.deploy-oceanbase-enterprise-edition/400.deploy-through-the-command-line/200.deploy-the-oceanbase-cluster-command-line/400.deploy-three-oceanbase-replica-clusters.md).

### Only datafile_size (or datafile_disk_percentage) is set when the cluster is started

For OceanBase Database Community Edition and OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition, if you set only `datafile_size` or `datafile_disk_percentage` when you deploy and start an OceanBase cluster, you need to manually set only `dataflie_maxsize` and `datafile_next` to implement automatic scale-out.

To do so, perform the following steps:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to query the size of the pre-allocated disk space:

   ```sql
   SELECT data_disk_allocated/1024/1024/1024 AS datafile_G FROM oceanbase.GV$OB_SERVERS;
   ```

   A sample query result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +-------------------+
   | datafile_G        |
   +-------------------+
   | 2048.000000000000 |
   +-------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   The query result shows that the size of the disk space pre-allocated (`data_disk_allocated`) to the data file is 2,048 GB (2 TB).

   For more information about columns in the `GV$OB_SERVERS` view, see [GV$OB_SERVERS](../../700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/900.gv-ob_servers-of-mysql-mode.md).

3. Set `datafile_maxsize` to a value greater than that of `data_disk_allocated`, and set `datafile_next` to a nonzero value.

   Here is an example:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET datafile_maxsize='4TB';
   ```

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET datafile_next='1TB';
   ```

4. Execute the following statement to verify whether the automatic scale-out settings take effect:

   ```sql
   SELECT data_disk_allocated/1024/1024/1024 AS datafile_G, data_disk_capacity/1024/1024/1024 AS datafile_max_G FROM oceanbase.GV$OB_SERVERS;
   ```

   A sample query result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +-------------------+-------------------+
   | datafile_G        | datafile_max_G    |
   +-------------------+-------------------+
   | 2048.000000000000 | 4096.000000000000 |
   +-------------------+-------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   The query result shows that the maximum capacity (`data_disk_capacity`) for automatic scale-out of disk space for the data file is the value of `datafile_maxsize`, and the value of `data_disk_capacity` is greater than that of `data_disk_allocated`. This indicates that the automatic scale-out settings take effect.

### datafile_size (or datafile_disk_percentage), datafile_next, and datafile_maxsize are not set when the cluster is started

For OceanBase Database Community Edition and OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition, if you do not set `datafile_size` (or `datafile_disk_percentage`), `datafile_next`, or `datafile_maxsize` when you deploy and start an OceanBase cluster, you can enable automatic scale-out by referring to the following procedure.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>Whether the <code>datafile_size</code> (or <code>datafile_disk_percentage</code>) parameter is set when the cluster is started for the first time affects the initial size of disk space for the data file. </p>
</main>

To do so, perform the following steps:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to query the size of the pre-allocated disk space:

   ```sql
   SELECT data_disk_allocated/1024/1024/1024 AS datafile_G FROM oceanbase.GV$OB_SERVERS;
   ```

   A sample query result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +-------------------+
   | datafile_G        |
   +-------------------+
   | 1770.000000000000 |
   +-------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   The query result shows that the size of the disk space pre-allocated (`data_disk_allocated`) to the data file is 1,770 GB (about 1.7 TB).

   For more information about columns in the `GV$OB_SERVERS` view, see [GV$OB_SERVERS](../../700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/900.gv-ob_servers-of-mysql-mode.md).

3. Set `datafile_maxsize` to a value greater than that of `data_disk_allocated`, and set `datafile_next` to a nonzero value.

   Here is an example:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET datafile_maxsize='4TB';
   ```

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET datafile_next='1TB';
   ```

4. Execute the following statement to verify whether the automatic scale-out settings take effect:

   ```sql
   SELECT data_disk_allocated/1024/1024/1024 AS datafile_G, data_disk_capacity/1024/1024/1024 AS datafile_max_G FROM oceanbase.GV$OB_SERVERS;
   ```

   A sample query result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +-------------------+-------------------+
   | datafile_G        | datafile_max_G    |
   +-------------------+-------------------+
   | 1770.000000000000 | 4096.000000000000 |
   +-------------------+-------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   The query result shows that the maximum capacity (`data_disk_capacity`) for automatic scale-out of disk space for the data file is the value of `datafile_maxsize`, and the value of `data_disk_capacity` is greater than that of `data_disk_allocated`. This indicates that the automatic scale-out settings take effect.

### What to do next

After the configuration, the system automatically scales out the disk space for data files based on the actual situation and the values of `datafile_next` and `datafile_maxsize`.

## References

* [Structure of the OBServer installation directory](../../100.oceanbase-database-concepts/1200.observer-node-architecture/100.observer-installation-directory-structure.md)
* [datafile_size](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/5400.datafile_size.md)
* [datafile_disk_percentage](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/5300.datafile_disk_percentage.md)
* [datafile_next](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/28500.datafile_next.md)
* [datafile_maxsize](../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/28400.datafile_maxsize.md)
* [Modify cluster-level parameters](../../../600.manage/100.cluster-management/300.common-cluster-operations/1300.modify-cluster-parameters.md)
