# CHAR data type

The CHAR data type stores fixed-length strings. This topic describes the syntax, parameters, and considerations of the CHAR data type.

## Syntax

```sql
CHAR [(size [BYTE | CHAR])]
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|------|-----------------|
| size | The specified fixed length.  |
| BYTE | The length of the column in bytes.  |
| CHAR | The length of the column in characters.  |

## Considerations

The `CHAR` data type stores fixed-length strings. The length of all values stored in the column of the `CHAR` data type equals the fixed length specified by `size`. If the inserted value is shorter than the specified length, OceanBase Database inserts blanks to pad the string to the specified length. For example, if you insert a 1-byte string into a column of the `CHAR(10)` type, OceanBase Database inserts blanks to pad the string to 10 bytes before it stores this string. If the inserted value exceeds this length, an error is returned.

The `BYTE` and `CHAR` qualifiers overwrite the semantics specified by the `NLS_LENGTH_SEMANTICS` parameter that uses `BYTE` as the default value. To ensure correct data conversion between databases with different character sets, you must ensure that the data of the `CHAR` type consists of strings in correct formats.

A column of the `CHAR` data type is 1-byte long by default, and the maximum length of the column is 2,000 bytes.

When you create a table and specify columns of the `CHAR` data type, the column length is specified in bytes by default. The value of `BYTE` is consistent with the default value.

If you choose the `CHAR` qualifier, the column length is specified in characters. For example, `CHAR(10 CHAR)` specifies the column length in characters.

## Examples

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl1(col1 CHAR(10), col2 INT, col3 INT);
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
