| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# VARCHAR2 data type

The VARCHAR2 data type stores a variable-length string. This topic describes the syntax, parameters, and considerations of the VARCHAR2 data type.

## Syntax

```sql
VARCHAR2(size [BYTE | CHAR])
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|------|--------------------|
| size | The length of the stored data in bytes or characters.  |
| BYTE | The length of the column in bytes. The default type of `VARCHAR2` is `BYTE`.  |
| CHAR | The length of the column in characters.  |

## Considerations

The maximum size of the `VARCHAR2` data type is 32,767 bytes. When you create a `VARCHAR2` column, you must specify the maximum length for the `VARCHAR2` column. Although the actual minimum string allowed for storage in a column of this type is a zero-length string (''), the maximum length must be at least 1 byte. OceanBase Database stores each character value in the `VARCHAR2` column based on the specified method.

The `VARCHAR2` data type supports using the `CHAR` qualifier to specify the maximum length in characters, such as `VARCHAR2(10 CHAR)`. The `VARCHAR2` data type also supports using the `BYTE` qualifier to specify the maximum length in bytes, such as `VARCHAR2(10 BYTE)`.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>Technically speaking, characters are code points in the database character set. </li>
    <li>When you create a database object with a VARCHAR2 column or attribute, if you do not specify a qualifier in the definition of the column or attribute, the value of the <code>NLS_LENGTH_SEMANTICS</code> parameter of the session creating the column defines the length semantics. </li>
    <li>OceanBase Database uses nonpadded comparison semantics to compare the <code>VARCHAR2</code> values. </li>
    <li>To correctly convert data between databases that use different character sets, ensure that the <code>VARCHAR2</code> data consists of correctly formatted strings. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>
