# Data encoding and compression

OceanBase Database supports both MySQL and Oracle modes. To accommodate users with different usage habits, OceanBase Database provides different configuration options for data encoding and compression in each mode.

OceanBase Database allows you to configure table-level compression or encoding through DDL statements.

## Configure data compression and encoding in MySQL mode

When you create or modify a table in MySQL mode, you can set the `row_format` and `compression` parameters to specify the encoding format and compression algorithm.

Sample statement:

* Specify the encoding format and compression algorithm when you create the table:

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE table_name table_definition_list
   ROW_FORMAT [=] row_format COMPRESSION [=] 'compression';
   ```

   For more information about the `CREATE TABLE` statement, see [CREATE TABLE](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2600.create-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

* Modify the encoding format and compression algorithm when you modify the table:

   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE table_name [alter_table_action_list] [SET] ROW_FORMAT [=]row_format COMPRESSION [=]  'compression';
   ```

   For more information about the `ALTER TABLE` statement, see [ALTER TABLE](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/1600.alter-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

Valid values of the `row_format` parameter are as follows:

* `REDUNDANT` and `COMPAT`: Data is not encoded and is saved in the flat format.

* `DYNAMIC` and `COMPRESSED`: Data is encoded and saved in the encoding format. The default value is `DYNAMIC`.

* `CONDENSED`: Data is encoded and saved in the selective encoding format.

   The selective encoding format is a subset of the encoding format and is more query-friendly.

Valid values of the `compression` parameter are as follows:

* `none`: Data is not compressed.

* `lz4_1.0`: Data is compressed by using the lz4_1.0 algorithm.

* `snappy_1.0`: Data is compressed by using the snappy_1.0 algorithm.

* `zlib_1.0`: Data is compressed by using the zlib_1.0 algorithm.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The zlib_1.0 algorithm can be viewed only in the current version and cannot be modified.</p>
  </main>


* `zstd_1.0`: Data is compressed by using the zstd_1.0 algorithm.

* `zstd_1.3.8`: Data is compressed by using the zstd_1.3.8 algorithm. By default, the `zstd_1.3.8` algorithm is used.

* `lz4_1.9.1`: Data is compressed by using the lz4_1.9.1 algorithm.

Here is an example:

* Specify the encoding format and compression algorithm when you create the table:

   Execute the following statement to set the encoding format to `encoding` and the compression algorithm to `zstd_1.0` when you create a table:

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE TABLE test (
    id INT NOT NULL,
    fname VARCHAR(30),
    lname VARCHAR(30),
    hired DATE NOT NULL DEFAULT '1970-01-01',
    separated DATE NOT NULL DEFAULT '9999-12-31',
    job_code INT NOT NULL,
    store_id INT NOT NULL
   ) ROW_FORMAT=CONDENSED COMPRESSION='zstd_1.0';
   ```

* Modify the encoding format and compression algorithm when you modify the table.

   Execute the following statement to change the table encoding format to `selective encoding` and the compression algorithm to `zlib_1.0`:

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER TABLE test SET ROW_FORMAT = CONDENSED COMPRESSION = 'zlib_1.0';
   ```

## Configure data compression and encoding in Oracle mode

When you create or modify a table in Oracle mode, you can specify the data encoding format and compression algorithm.

The syntax is as follows:

* Specify the encoding format and compression algorithm when you create the table:

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE table_name table_definition_list compression;
   ```

   For more information about the `CREATE TABLE` statement, see [CREATE TABLE](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/2400.create-table-of-oracle-mode.md).

* Modify the encoding format and compression algorithm when you modify the table:

   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE table_name [alter_table_action_list] compression;
   ```

   For more information about the `ALTER TABLE` statement, see [ALTER TABLE](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/1000.alter-table-of-oracle-mode.md).

Valid values of the `compression` parameter are as follows:

* `NOCOMPRESS`: Data is not encoded or compressed, and is saved in the flat format.

* `COMPRESS BASIC`: Data is not encoded but is saved in the flat format and compressed by using the lz4_1.0 algorithm.

* `COMPRESS FOR OLTP`: Data is not encoded but is saved in the flat format and compressed by using the zstd_1.3.8 algorithm.

* `COMPRESS FOR QUERY`: Data is encoded, saved in the encoding format, and compressed by using the lz4_1.0 algorithm.

* `COMPRESS FOR ARCHIVE`: Data is encoded, saved in the encoding format, and compressed by using the zstd_1.3.8 algorithm. By default, `COMPRESS FOR ARCHIVE` is used.

* `COMPRESS FOR QUERY LOW`: Data is encoded, saved in the selective encoding format, and compressed by using the lz4_1.0 algorithm.

   The selective encoding format is a subset of the encoding format and is more query-friendly.

Here is an example:

* Specify the encoding format and compression algorithm when you create the table.

   Execute the following statement to set the encoding format to `encoding` and the compression algorithm to `lz4_1.0` when you create a table:

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE TABLE test (
   id number NOT NULL,
   fname VARCHAR2(30),
   lname VARCHAR2(30),
   hired DATE NOT NULL DEFAULT sysdate,
   separated DATE,
   job_code INT NOT NULL,
   store_id INT NOT NULL
   ) COMPRESS FOR QUERY;
   ```

* Modify the encoding format and compression algorithm when you modify the table.

   Execute the following statement to change the table encoding format to `encoding` and the compression algorithm to `zstd_1.3.8`:

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER TABLE test COMPRESS FOR ARCHIVE;
   ```

## Change the compression algorithm for SSTables

To change the compression algorithm for SSTables without causing a huge volume of I/O writes in major compactions, you need to launch a progressive compaction to rewrite all the data microblocks. The number of rounds of progressive compactions can be determined by specifying the `progressive_merge_num` parameter in the `ALTER TABLE` statement.

To do so, perform the following steps:

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

2. Execute the following statement to set the number of rounds of progressive compactions.

   The `progressive_merge_num` parameter specifies the number of rounds of progressive compactions on a table. The default value is `0`, which indicates incremental compaction. If you set the parameter to `1`, a full compaction is performed.

   To set two rounds of progressive compactions, execute the following statement:

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 SET progressive_merge_num=2;
   ```

   After the parameter is set, data is progressively rewritten during major compactions each day.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>To complete data rewriting at the earliest opportunity, you can set the <code>progressive_merge_num</code> to <code>1</code>, and launch a major compaction. For more information about how to manually initiate a major compaction, see <a href="../200.merge-management/400.manually-trigger-a-merge.md">Manually initiate a major compaction</a>. </p>
   </main>

3. Change the compression algorithm.

   For more information about how to change the compression algorithm in MySQL mode, see the **Configure data compression and encoding in MySQL mode** section in this topic.

   For more information about how to change the compression algorithm in Oracle mode, see the **Configure data compression and encoding in Oracle mode** section in this topic.
