# Manage directory objects

OceanBase Database in Oracle mode allows you to map a folder on a shared file system, such as Network File System (NFS), to a database directory object. Directory objects are mainly used in the `UTL_FILE` system package.

## Create a directory object

You can execute the `CREATE DIRECTORY` statement to create a directory object in OceanBase Database. A created directory object specifies an alias for a folder on the shared file system.

Syntax for creating a directory object:

```sql
CREATE [OR REPLACE] DIRECTORY <directory object name> AS <file system path>;
```

In the syntax:

* `OR REPLACE` specifies that if the specified directory object name already exists, a new file system path replaces the original directory definition.

Example of creating a directory object named `sql_file_dir`:

```sql
obclient> CREATE OR REPLACE DIRECTORY sql_file_dir AS '/usr/sqldump';
```

## Drop a directory object

You can execute the `DROP DIRECTORY` statement to drop a directory object from OceanBase Database.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>Do not drop a directory object when PL is accessing files in the shared file system. </p>
</main>

Syntax for dropping a directory object:

```sql
obclient> DROP DIRECTORY <directory object name>;
```

Example of dropping the directory object named `sql_file_dir`:

```sql
obclient> DROP DIRECTORY sql_file_dir;
```

## Usage notes

Take note of the following rules when you create a directory object:

* OceanBase Database does not automatically create folders in the specified file system path, such as `/usr/sqldump`. You must manually create folders. For example, you can run the `mkdir` command to create a folder.

* OceanBase Database does not check or determine whether the specified file system path exists or whether read/write permissions on this path are obtained.

* As OceanBase Database is a distributed database system, you must make sure that all OBServer nodes can access the same absolute path. In general, you can specify a path on a shared file system, such as NFS, as the file system path in the statement that is used to create a directory object.

* To create a directory object, you must have the `CREATE ANY DIRECTORY` system privilege.

Take note of the following rules when you drop a directory object:

* If a directory object is dropped, the folder that the directory object maps to on the shared file system is not dropped.

* To drop a directory object, you must have the `DROP ANY DIRECTORY` system privilege.

## Directory object-related views

After a directory object is created, you can check the status of the directory object based on the following views:

* `DBA_DIRECTORIES`

   The `DBA_DIRECTORIES` view displays the definitions of all directory objects under a tenant. Only the `sys` user and users that have query permissions on this view can access this view.

   | **Field**      | **Type**       | **Nullable** | **Description**             |
   |----------------|----------------|--------------|-----------------------------|
   | OWNER          | VARCHAR2(128)  | NO           | The owner of the directory. |
   | DIRECTORY_NAME | VARCHAR2(128)  | NO           | The name of the directory.  |
   | DIRECTORY_PATH | VARCHAR2(4000) | NO           | The path of the directory.  |
   | ORIGIN_CON_ID  | NUMBER(38)     | NO           | The ID of the tenant.       |

* `ALL_DIRECTORIES`

   The `ALL_DIRECTORIES` view displays the definitions of the directory objects that are accessible to the current user.

   | **Field**      | **Type**       | **Nullable** | **Description**             |
   |----------------|----------------|--------------|-----------------------------|
   | OWNER          | VARCHAR2(128)  | NO           | The owner of the directory. |
   | DIRECTORY_NAME | VARCHAR2(128)  | NO           | The name of the directory.  |
   | DIRECTORY_PATH | VARCHAR2(4000) | NO           | The path of the directory.  |
   | ORIGIN_CON_ID  | NUMBER(38)     | NO           | The ID of the tenant.       |
