|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Use OMS to migrate data from an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database to an Oracle database

This topic describes how to use OceanBase Migration Service (OMS) to migrate data from an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database to an Oracle database. 

## Background information

You can create a data migration project in the OMS console to seamlessly migrate the existing business data and incremental data from an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database to an Oracle database through schema migration, full migration, and incremental synchronization. 

Oracle Database supports the following modes: primary database only, standby database only, and primary/standby databases. The following table describes the data migration operations supported by each mode. 

| Mode | Supported operations |
|-----|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Primary database only | Schema migration, full migration, incremental synchronization, full verification, and reverse incremental migration |
| Standby database only | An Oracle database in this mode cannot serve as the destination for data migration. |
| Primary/standby databases | Primary database: schema migration, full migration, and incremental synchronization</br>Secondary database: full verification and reverse incremental migration |

OMS allows you to aggregate the data of multiple tables of an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database to the same table in an Oracle database without schema migration. You only need to perform full migration and incremental synchronization. The aggregation and synchronization feature has the following limits:

* For full migration and incremental synchronization, the destination table must contain all columns that exist in the source table. Otherwise, OMS returns an error. 

* The source table must contain a primary key column. 

* The destination table can contain a column that does not exist in the source table. 

## References

For more information about how to use OMS to migrate data from an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database to an Oracle database, see [Migrate data from an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database to an Oracle database](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oms-doc-en-10000000000888392). 
