|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Perform physical restore

This topic describes how to perform tenant-level physical restore by using SQL statements. OceanBase Database supports tenant-level full restore based on points in time.

OceanBase Database supports restore within a cluster or across clusters.

After you execute the restore statement, the system restores the required macroblock data from the corresponding full and incremental backups at the backup destination to the destination tenant and then pulls and replays the transaction logs.

## Prerequisites

The preparations before restore are complete. For more information, see [Preparations](../600.restore-data/100.preparation-before-recovery.md).

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. (Optional) Execute the following statement to set a restore password for the backup.

   You need to set a restore password for the backup only if a password is added during data backup.

   ```sql
   SET DECRYPTION IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
   ```

   In the statement, `password` must be replaced with the password added during data backup. If the password for full backup is different from the password for incremental backup, you must enter the password for full backup before the password for incremental backup and separate them with a comma.

   If the password for full backup is the same as that for incremental backup, use the following syntax:

   ```sql
   SET DECRYPTION IDENTIFIED BY '******';
   ```

   If the password for full backup is different from that for incremental backup, use the following syntax:

   ```sql
   SET DECRYPTION IDENTIFIED BY '******','******';
   ```

3. Execute the following statement to set the encryption information.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>If the original key management service can be accessed without encryption or during recovery, skip this step.</p>
   </main>

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET @kms_encrypt_info = '<encryption_string>';
   ```

   Here, <encryption_string> is the value of `EXTERNAL_KMS_INFO`, which is a tenant-level parameter.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p><code>external_kms_info</code> is used to store some key management information. For a detailed description of this parameter, see <a href="../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/1100.external_kms_info.md">external_kms_info</a>.
   </p>
   </main>

4. Execute the following statement to start a restore job:



   * Restore to a specified timestamp

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE dest_tenant_name FROM uri UNTIL TIME='timestamp' WITH 'restore_option' [WITH KEY FROM 'backup_key_path' ENCRYPTED BY 'password'] [DESCRIPTION description];
      ```

   * Restore to a specified SCN

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE dest_tenant_name FROM uri UNTIL SCN=scn WITH 'restore_option' [WITH KEY FROM 'backup_key_path' ENCRYPTED BY 'password'] [DESCRIPTION description];
      ```

   * Restore to the latest timestamp

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE dest_tenant_name FROM uri WITH 'restore_option' [WITH KEY FROM 'backup_key_path' ENCRYPTED BY 'password'] [DESCRIPTION description];
      ```

   where

   * `dest_tenant_name` specifies the name of the tenant to be restored.

   * `uri` specifies the data backup path and log archive path, and `UNTIL [TIME|SCN]` specifies the end checkpoint for restore.

   * To restore to a specified `TIME` or `SCN` value, join the parameter name and value with an equal sign (`=`).

   * In `restore_option`, you can specify `pool_list`, `locality`, `primary_zone`, and `concurrency`. Separate the options with ampersands (`&`). We recommend that you set `locality` and `primary_zone` to the same values as those of the source tenant. Otherwise, load balancing may be performed after the tenant is restored and activated as the primary tenant, which compromises the performance.

      * `pool_list`: the name of the resource pool created for the tenant to be restored. Multiple resource pools must be separated with commas (,).

      * `Locality`: the locality of replicas of the tenant to be restored, which must match the zone information of `pool_list` of the cluster where the tenant is located. To ensure homogeneity with the source tenant, we recommend that you set the number of full-featured replicas of the tenant to the same as that of the source tenant.

      * `primary_zone`: the preferred position of the leader of the tenant to be restored, which must match the settings of `pool_list` and `locality`. To ensure homogeneity with the source tenant, we recommend that you set the number of primary zones with the top priority of the tenant to the same as that of the source tenant.

      * `concurrency`: the degree of parallelism (DOP) for data restore. If `concurrency` is not specified, the `MAX_CPU` value assigned to the tenant is used as the default value. In this example, the `MAX_CPU` value is 16.

      For more information about the parameters, see [Parameters related to physical restore](800.parameters-of-the-restore.md).

   * `WITH KEY FROM 'backup_key_path' ENCRYPTED BY 'password'` specifies the backup key information for encrypting the tenant. This is only required when the source tenant is configured with transparent encryption and the key backup information needs to be specified during restore.

      * `backup_key_path`: the backup path for the key.

      * `password`: the encryption password specified during key backup.

      For more information about how to back up keys, see **Back up a key** in [Preparations](../400.data-backup/100.preparation-before-data-backup.md).

   For more information about `TIME`, `SCN`, and other parameters, see [Parameters related to physical restore](../600.restore-data/800.parameters-of-the-restore.md).

   Here are some examples:

   * NFS

      * Restore the `mysql` tenant from a data backup path and a log archive path to the timestamp `2020-06-01 00:00:00`. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool` and restore the key information of the source tenant.

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' UNTIL TIME='2020-06-01 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool' WITH KEY FROM 'file:///data_backup_dest/key' ENCRYPTED BY '******';
         ```

      * Restore the `mysql` tenant from a data backup path and a log archive path to the latest archive timestamp. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool` and restore concurrency to `50`.

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool&concurrency=50';
         ```

      * Restore the `mysql` tenant from a data backup path and a log archive path to the SCN `1658285759724047000`. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool`.

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' UNTIL SCN=1658285759724047000 WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool';
         ```

      * Restore the `mysql` tenant from a data backup path and a log archive path to the timestamp `2020-06-01 00:00:00`. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool` and the replica locality to `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3`.

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' UNTIL TIME='2020-06-01 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool&locality=F@z1,F@z2,F@z3';
         ```

      * Restore the `mysql` tenant from a data backup path and a log archive path to the timestamp `2020-06-01 00:00:00`. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool`, replica locality to `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3`, and `primary_zone` to `z1`.

         ```sql
         ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' UNTIL TIME='2020-06-01 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool&locality=F@z1,F@z2,F@z3&primary_zone=z1';
         ```

   * OSS

      Except for the `url` parameter, the settings of other parameters are consistent with those when `NFS` is used.

      Restore the `mysql` tenant from an OSS data backup path and an OSS log archive path to the timestamp `2020-06-01 00:00:00`. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool`.

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/data/?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx,oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive/?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx' UNTIL TIME='2020-06-01 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool';
      ```

   * COS

      Except for the `url` parameter, the settings of other parameters are consistent with those when `NFS` is used.

      Restore the `mysql` tenant from a COS data backup path and a COS log archive path to the timestamp `2020-06-01 00:00:00`. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool`.

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'cos://oceanbase-test-appid/backup?host=cos.ap-xxxx.myqcloud.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx&appid=xxx, cos://oceanbase-test-appid/backup/archive?host=cos.ap-xxxx.myqcloud.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx&appid=xxx' UNTIL TIME='2020-06-01 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool';
      ```

   * S3

      Except for the `url` parameter, the settings of other parameters are consistent with those when `NFS` is used.

      Restore the `mysql` tenant from an S3 data backup path and an S3 log archive path to the timestamp `2024-01-15 00:00:00`. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool`.

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 's3://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/data?host=s3.<region>.amazonaws.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx&s3_region=xxx, s3://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?host=s3.<region>.amazonaws.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx&s3_region=xxx' UNTIL TIME='2024-01-15 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool';
      ```

5. (Optional) After you create the meta tenant corresponding to the tenant to be restored, set the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter to specify the number of worker threads for the restore job to speed up the restore.

   1. Query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS` view to check whether the meta tenant is created.

      The syntax is as follows:

      ```sql
      SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS;
      ```

      In the query results, tenant names starting with `META$` in the `TENANT_NAME` column indicate meta tenants. Meta tenants in the `TENANT_STATUS_NORMAL` state are successfully created.

      For more information about columns in the `DBA_OB_TENANTS` view, see [DBA_OB_TENANTS](../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/19300.oceanbase-dba_ob_tenants-of-mysql-mode.md).

   2. Specify the `ha_high_thread_score` parameter.

      The tenant-level `ha_high_thread_score` parameter specifies the current number of high-availability worker threads with a high priority. The default value is `0` and the value range is [0, 100]. We recommend that you set this parameter to `10`. For more information about the `ha_high_thread_score` parameter, see [ha_high_thread_score](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4100.ha_high_thread_score.md).

      Here is an example:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_high_thread_score =10 TENANT = mysql;
      ```

## What to do next

* After you initiate a restore job, you can query the corresponding views to check the restore progress and results. For more information, see [Query the physical restore progress](../600.restore-data/400.view-the-restore-progress.md).

* If you restore a tenant from backup files of an earlier OceanBase Database version to a cluster of a later version, after the restore job is completed, you must upgrade the restored tenant. For more information, see [Upgrade a tenant after restore](610.update-the-tenant-after-the-restore.md).

* Physical restore is associated with the Physical Standby Database feature. A physically restored tenant serves as a standby tenant. You can convert it into the primary tenant based on your business needs. For information about how to proceed to log replay from the source tenant, see [Replay logs to a standby tenant](510.recover-the-standby-tenant.md). For information about how to convert a standby tenant into the primary tenant, see [Convert a standby tenant into primary tenant](600.active-standby-tenant.md).

## References

For more information about restore, see [Restore architecture](../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/1000.high-data-reliability-and-availability/500.backup-and-recovery/400.recovery-architecture.md).