# Convert a standby tenant into primary tenant

After a restore succeeded, the restored tenant is a standby tenant. You can execute the `ACTIVATE` statement to convert the standby tenant into primary tenant.

## Background information

Physical restore is associated with the Physical Standby Database feature. A physically restored tenant serves as a standby tenant. You can convert it into a primary tenant based on your business needs.

## Prerequisites

The restore succeeded. For more information about how to view the restore result, see [View the restore result](../600.restore-data/500.view-the-restore-history.md).

## Convert a standby tenant into primary tenant from the sys tenant

The procedure is as follows:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to change the role of the standby tenant:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY TENANT tenant_name;
   ```

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>You can use this statement to change the role of only one tenant at a time. To change the roles of multiple tenants, execute this statement repeatedly. </p>
   </main>

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY TENANT mysql;
   ```

   For more information about the parameters in the statement, see [Parameters related to physical restore](../600.restore-data/800.parameters-of-the-restore.md).

## Convert a standby tenant into primary tenant from the user tenant

The procedure is as follows:

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of the standby tenant.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>The administrator user is <code>root</code> for a MySQL tenant and <code>SYS</code> for an Oracle tenant. </p>
   </main>

2. Execute the following statement to change the role of the standby tenant:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY;
   ```
