|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Upgrade a tenant after restore

If you restore a standby tenant from backup files of OceanBase Database to a cluster of a later version, after you change the role of the tenant to PRIMARY, you must upgrade the restored tenant.

## Limitations

Only OceanBase Database V4.1.0.0 and later allow you to upgrade a restored tenant.

## Prerequisites

The role of the restored standby tenant has been changed to PRIMARY. For more information, see [Change the role of a standby tenant to PRIMARY](600.active-standby-tenant.md).

## Procedure

1. Log on as the `root` user to the `sys` tenant of the cluster where the restored tenant resides.

2. Run the upgrade command to upgrade the restored tenant.

   The syntax is as follows:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM RUN UPGRADE JOB "UPGRADE_ALL" TENANT = tenant_name;
   ```

   Here, `tenant_name` specifies the name of the restored tenant. You can upgrade multiple tenants at a time. Separate the tenant names with commas (,).

3. After the upgrade, check whether the tenant is successfully upgraded. The query statement varies with the version of the current OceanBase cluster.

   * When the current OceanBase cluster is of a version earlier than V4.2.1.1:

      A sample query statement is as follows:

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]> SELECT distinct(value) FROM oceanbase.GV$OB_PARAMETERS WHERE tenant_id =1004;
      ```

      Here, `1004` is the `tenant_id` value of the upgraded tenant. You can obtain the value of `tenant_id` by querying the `DBA_OB_TENANTS` view.

      If the query result is a row and the `value` column displays the four-digit version number of the current cluster, such as 4.2.1.0, the tenant upgrade is successful.

   * When the current OceanBase cluster is of V4.2.1.1 or later:

      A sample query statement is as follows:

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]> SELECT count(*) FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_CLUSTER_EVENT_HISTORY WHERE event = 'UPTRADE_ALL' AND value3 ='4.2.1.1' AND value5 = '1004';
      ```

      The parameter values are described as follows:

      * `4.2.1.1` indicates the four-digit version number of the current cluster. For more information about how to view the version number, see [Versioning rules](../../../900.release-notes/100.oceanbase-database-version-numbers.md).

      * `1004` is the `tenant_id` value of the upgraded tenant. You can obtain the value of `tenant_id` by querying the `DBA_OB_TENANTS` view.

      If the query result is not `0`, the tenant is successfully upgraded.
