| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# Preparations

This topic describes the preparations for log archiving.

## (Optional) Configure the log archiving concurrency

Before you enable the archiving mode for a tenant, you can configure the log archiving concurrency to accelerate log archiving for the tenant.

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of the `sys` tenant or a user tenant.

2. Configure the `log_archive_concurrency` parameter by using a proper statement.

   The tenant-level parameter `log_archive_concurrency` specifies the total number of worker threads for log archiving. The modification of this parameter takes effect immediately without restarting the OBServer node. The value range of this parameter is [0, 100]. The default value is `0`, which means using the adaptive log archiving concurrency of OceanBase Database. We recommend that you use the default value.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>If the tenant is configured with two or four CPU cores, we recommend that you use the default value. </p>
   </main>

   Methods for adjusting the log archiving concurrency are as follows:

   * Execute the following statement in the `sys` tenant to adjust the log archiving concurrency of a specified tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET log_archive_concurrency = 10 TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

   * Execute the following statement in the `sys` tenant to adjust the log archiving concurrency of all tenants:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET log_archive_concurrency = 10 TENANT = all_user;
      ```

      Alternatively, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET log_archive_concurrency = 10 TENANT = all;
      ```

     <main id="notice" type='explain'>
     <h4>Note</h4>
     <p>Starting from OceanBase Database V4.2.1, <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all user tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>
     </main>

   * Execute the following statement in a user tenant to adjust its log archiving concurrency:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET log_archive_concurrency = 10;
      ```

   For more information about the `log_archive_concurrency` parameter, see [log_archive_concurrency](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4300.log_archive_concurrency.md).

## Configure the archive destination

Before you initiate a log archiving job, you must execute the `ALTER SYSTEM` statement to configure the `LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST` parameter. The `sys` tenant is used for managing clusters and does not contain user data or support backup or restore. Therefore, you do not need to configure an archive destination for the `sys` tenant.

Set the `LOCATION`, `BINDING`, and `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` attributes of the archive destination.

### Considerations

Make sure that the archive path for each tenant is a separate empty directory. You cannot configure the same archive path for different tenants.

### Procedure

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of the `sys` tenant or a user tenant.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>The administrator user of a MySQL tenant is <code>root</code> and that of an Oracle tenant is <code>SYS</code>. </p>
   </main>

2. Configure the archive destination.

   * Configure the archive destination for a specified tenant as the `sys` tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=archive_path [BINDING=archive_mode] [PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=piece_switch_interval]' TENANT = tenant_name;
      ```

   * Configure the archive destination for the current tenant as a user tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=archive_path [BINDING=archive_mode] [PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=piece_switch_interval]';
      ```

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>After upgrading OceanBase Database from V4.0.x to V4.1.0, it is necessary to change the archive path. However, when upgrading from V4.1.x to V4.2.x, there is no need to change the archive path. Moreover, during the upgrade process from V4.1.x to V4.2.x, you have the option to archive logs. </p>
   </main>

   The details are as follows:

   * (Required) Set `LOCATION`.

      The `LOCATION` attribute specifies the archive destination. OceanBase Database allows you to use the following types of archive destinations: Network File System (NFS), Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS), Tencent Cloud Object Storage (COS), Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), and object storage services that are compatible with the S3 protocol, such as Huawei Object Storage Service (OBS) and Google Cloud Storage (GCS).

      :::tab
      tab OSS

      When you use an OSS bucket as the archive destination, besides the archive path and the `host`, `access_key`, and `access_id` parameters, you can also set the `delete_mode` parameter to configure the cleanup mode for archive files.

      The `delete_mode` parameter has two values: `delete` and `tagging`. If you do not specify this parameter, the default value `delete` takes effect.

      * `delete`: The archive files that meet the cleanup requirements are directly deleted.

         In this mode, when you enable automatic cleanup for archive files in automatic mode, the system directly deletes the archive files that meet the requirements.

        <main id="notice" type='notice'>
        <h4>Notice</h4>
        <p>This is the default cleanup mode. If you do not specify <code>delete_mode</code>, the default cleanup mode <code>delete</code> takes effect. </p>
        </main>

      * `tagging`: The archive files that meet the cleanup requirements are tagged and retained.

         In this mode, when you enable automatic cleanup for archive files, the system directly tags the archive files that meet the cleanup requirements. The key of the tag is `delete_mode` and the value is `tagging`. This way, you can manage the lifecycle of these files on OSS based on the tag.

      To set an OSS bucket as the archive destination and specify the `delete` cleanup mode for the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?
      host=***.aliyun-inc.com
      &access_id=***
      &access_key=***
      &delete_mode=delete' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      To set an OSS bucket as the archive destination and specify the `delete` cleanup mode for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?
      host=***.aliyun-inc.com
      &access_id=***
      &access_key=***
      &delete_mode=delete';
      ```

      Here, `oss://` indicates that OSS is used as the archive destination type, the bucket name is `oceanbase-test-bucket`, the storage path in the bucket is `/backup/archive`, and `?` is used to separate other parameters of the path. The `host` parameter specifies the host address of the bucket. The `access_id` and `access_key` parameters specify the access key of OSS. The cleanup mode is set to `delete`.

      For more information about the automatic cleanup of archived data in `delete` or `tagging` mode, see [Automatic cleanup of archived data](../500.clear-backup-data/100.cleaning-up-backed-up-data-automatically.md).

      tab NFS

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>When you use NFS as the archive destination, note that:</p>
      <ul>
      <li>The value of <code>LOCATION</code> cannot be a string with a question mark (?). </li>
      <li>The value of <code>LOCATION</code> must be an absolute path, and the OBServer node must have read and write privileges on the destination specified by <code>LOCATION</code>. </li>
      <li>Ensure that all OBServer nodes are mounted to NFS of the same server and use the parameter settings recommended in this topic. For more information about the procedure of deploying NFS, see <a href="../200.deploy-nfs.md">Deploy the NFS client</a>. </li>
      </ul>
      </main>

      To set an NFS file system as the archive destination for the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      To set an NFS file system as the archive destination for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive';
      ```

      Here, `file://` indicates that NFS is used as the archive destination type, and the archive path is `/data/nfs/backup/archive`.

      tab COS

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>If you use COS as the archive destination, note that:</p>
      <ul>
      <li>The list cache of the bucket must be disabled. Otherwise, a backup inconsistency error occurs. For guidance on how to disable the list cache of a bucket, contact the technical support of COS. </li>
      <li>To use the APPEND Object API for a bucket, you must disable the multi-AZ feature. If the multi-AZ feature is enabled, an error is reported during archiving. </li>
      </ul>
      </main>

      COS allows you to configure the cleanup mode of archive files by using the `delete_mode` parameter in the same way as with OSS.

      * To set a COS bucket as the archive destination and specify the `delete` cleanup mode for the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=cos://oceanbase-test-appid/backup/archive?
         host=cos.ap-***.myqcloud.com
         &access_id=***
         &access_key=***&appid=***
         &delete_mode=delete' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
         ```

      * To set a COS bucket as the archive destination and specify the `delete` cleanup mode for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statement:

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=cos://oceanbase-test-appid/backup/archive?
         host=cos.ap-***.myqcloud.com
         &access_id=***
         &access_key=***&appid=***
         &delete_mode=delete';
         ```

      Here, `cos://` indicates that COS is used as the archive destination type, the bucket name is `oceanbase-test-appid`, the storage path in the bucket is `/backup/archive`, and `?` is used to separate other parameters of the path. The `host` parameter specifies the host address of the bucket, that is, the endpoint (without the bucket name) of the bucket. The `access_id` and `access_key` parameters specify the access key of `COS`. The `appid` parameter is required, and it specifies the APPID of the Tencent Cloud account. The cleanup mode is set to `delete`.

      tab S3

      S3 allows you to configure the cleanup mode of archive files by using the `delete_mode` parameter in the same way as with OSS and COS.

      * To set an S3 bucket as the archive destination and specify the `delete` cleanup mode for the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=s3://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?
         host=s3.<region>.amazonaws.com
         &access_id=******
         &access_key=******
         &s3_region=******
         &delete_mode=delete' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
         ```

      * To set an S3 bucket as the archive destination and specify the `delete` cleanup mode for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statement:

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=s3://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?
         host=s3.<region>.amazonaws.com
         &access_id=******
         &access_key=******
         &s3_region=******
         &delete_mode=delete';
         ```

      Here, `s3://` indicates that S3 is used as the archive destination type, the bucket name is `oceanbase-test-bucket`, the storage path in the bucket is `/backup/archive`, and `?` is used to separate other parameters of the path. The `host` parameter specifies the domain name of S3. The `access_id` and `access_key` parameters specify the access key of the account to access S3. The `s3_region` parameter is required, and it specifies the region where the S3 bucket is located. The cleanup mode is set to `delete`.

      tab Object storage services compatible with the S3 protocol

      If you use an object storage service that is compatible with the S3 protocol and the behaviors of S3 APIs of OceanBase Database, such as OBS or GCS, OceanBase Database allows you to use the object storage service as the archive destination type, and access the object storage in the same way as you access an S3 bucket.

      The following example describes how to set an OBS bucket as the archive destination:

      * To set an OBS bucket as the archive destination for the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=s3://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?
         host=obs.****.myhuaweicloud.com
         &access_id=****
         &access_key=****' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
         ```

      * To set an OBS bucket as the archive destination for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statement:

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=s3://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?
         host=obs.****.myhuaweicloud.com
         &access_id=****
         &access_key=****';
         ```

      Here, `s3://` indicates that an object storage service compatible with the S3 protocol is used as the archive destination type, the bucket name is `oceanbase-test-bucket`, the storage path in the bucket is `/backup/archive`, and `?` is used to separate other parameters of the path. The `host` parameter specifies the domain name of OBS. The `access_id` and `access_key` parameters specify the access key of the account to access OBS.

      The following example describes how to set a GCS bucket as the archive destination:

      * To set a GCS bucket as the archive destination for the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST=
         'LOCATION=s3://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?
         host=https://storage.googleapis.com
         &access_id=****
         &access_key=****' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
         ```

      * To set a GCS bucket as the archive destination for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statement:

         ```sql
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST=
         'LOCATION=s3://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?
         host=https://storage.googleapis.com
         &access_id=****
         &access_key=****';
         ```

      Here, `s3://` indicates that an object storage service compatible with the S3 protocol is used as the archive destination type, the bucket name is `oceanbase-test-bucket`, the storage path in the bucket is `/backup/archive`, and `?` is used to separate other parameters of the path. The `host` parameter specifies the domain name of GCS. The `access_id` and `access_key` parameters specify the access key of the account to access GCS.

      :::

   * (Optional) Set the `BINDING` attribute.

      The `BINDING` attribute specifies the prioritizing mode for archiving and businesses. The `BINDING` attribute has two values: `Optional` and `Mandatory`. If you do not specify this attribute, the default value `Optional` takes effect.

      * The `Optional` mode prioritizes user businesses. In this mode, when log archiving falls behind log generation, logs may be recycled before being archived. This causes an interruption.

      * The `Mandatory` mode prioritizes archiving. In this mode, you may be unable to write more data before existing data is archived.

      To set an NFS file system as the archive destination and set the `BINDING` attribute for the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Optional' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      To set an NFS file system as the archive destination and set the `BINDING` attribute for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Optional';
      ```

   * (Optional) Set the `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` attribute.

      The `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` attribute specifies the switching interval for pieces. The value range is `[1d, 7d]`. If you do not specify this attribute, the default value `1d` takes effect.

      To set an NFS file system as the archive destination and specify to generate a log piece every other day for the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Optional PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=1d' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      To set an NFS file system as the archive destination and specify to generate a log piece every other day for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Optional PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=1d';
      ```

3. Query parameter settings from a view.

   You can query parameter settings from the `CDB_OB_ARCHIVE_DEST` view in the `sys` tenant or from the `DBA_OB_ARCHIVE_DEST` view in a user tenant. For more information, see [View the archiving parameter settings](../300.log-archive/800.view-parameters-of-log-archive.md).

### Considerations

After you configure the `LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST` parameter, by default, the system creates a file named `format` in the directory to which the specified destination belongs. This file is used to verify the validity information of the archive destination and ensure the integrity of data in the destination. Therefore, observe the following considerations when you configure the log archive destination:

* If the `format` file does not exist, the directory where the configured destination is located must be empty so that the `LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST` parameter can be set. If this directory is not empty, the system returns the `-9080` error to indicate that the `format` file does not exist.

* If the `format` file exists, its content must be verified so that the parameter can be set. Otherwise, the system returns the `-9081` error, indicating that the types of the cluster, tenant, and backup destination in the `format` file do not match those of the current cluster, tenant, and backup destination.

* When you execute a backup job, the job fails to be initiated if the `format` file does not exist or fails the verification.

In addition, incremental configuration is not supported after the archive destination is configured. Assume that the `BINDING` attribute is set to `Mandatory` and the `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` attribute is set to `1d` for the archive path `/data/nfs/backup/archive` in NFS. To change the value of `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` to `2d` and keep the setting of the `BINDING` attribute to `Mandatory`, you still need to specify the values of other attributes in the statement. If you do not specify a value for an attribute, the default value is used for the attribute.

Execute the following statement to modify the attribute settings.

* Modify the attribute settings for a specified tenant as the `sys` tenant:

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST = 'LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Mandatory PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=2d' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
   ```

* Modify the attribute settings for the current tenant as a user tenant:

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST = 'LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Mandatory PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=2d';
   ```

## Set the lag of log archiving

The tenant-level parameter `archive_lag_target` of OceanBase Database specifies the lag of log archiving or, in other words, the maximum interval between two consecutive archiving I/O operations in a tenant. The value can be in milliseconds (ms), seconds (s), minutes (m), or hours (h). The default lag is 2 minutes. This parameter ensures that online logs are archived in a timely manner, thus reducing the risk of data loss.

The logs of OceanBase Database are archived by log streams. If logs are written to a log stream, and the duration since the last archiving of the log stream reaches the value of the `archive_lag_target` parameter, the log stream triggers an archiving operation to archive all unarchived logs.

For example, if you set the `archive_lag_target` parameter to `120s`, each log stream triggers an archiving operation every 2 minutes unless other conditions prevent the operation. For example, the aggregation buffer for log archiving is full. Note that if you set the `archive_lag_target` parameter to `0`, log streams achieve logs in a quasi-real-time manner.

For more information about the `archive_lag_target` parameter, see [archive_lag_target](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/200.archive_lag_target.md).

### Prerequisites

Before you modify the value of the `archive_lag_target` parameter, make sure that you have configured the archive destination. Otherwise, the following message is returned: `log_archive_dest has not been set, set archive_lag_target is not allowed`.

### Considerations

* If you use OSS, NFS, or COS as the archive destination type, you can set the `archive_lag_target` parameter to any value within the value range. If you use S3 as the archive destination type, the value of the `archive_lag_target` parameter cannot be smaller than `60s`. Otherwise, the system reports an error.

* We recommend that you set the `archive_lag_target` parameter to a reasonable value. A small value results in frequent I/O operations, which may downgrade system performance, especially when you use object storage services. A large value may affect the data restore timeliness. Therefore, you need to consider the recovery point objective (RPO) based on your business requirements and the performance of the storage media for log archiving.

### Procedure

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of the `sys` tenant or a user tenant.

2. Select an appropriate statement to set the lag of log archiving as needed.

   * To configure the archive lag time for a specific tenant as the `sys` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET archive_lag_target = '120s' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

     <main id="notice" type='notice'>
     <h4>Notice</h4>
     <p>When configuring the <code>archive_lag_target</code> parameter, the <code>sys</code> tenant is not allowed to specify all user tenants using <code>TENANT = all_user</code>.</p>
     </main>

   * To configure the archive lag time for the current tenant as a user tenant, execute the following statements:

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET archive_lag_target = '120s';
      ```

## References

* [View the archiving parameter settings](../300.log-archive/800.view-parameters-of-log-archive.md)

* [View the archiving progress](../300.log-archive/600.view-log-archive-progress.md)

* [View the archiving history](../300.log-archive/700.view-log-archive-history.md)