|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Enable ARCHIVELOG

`ARCHIVELOG` is used to control the log archiving feature for a tenant. Log archiving jobs can be initiated only when `ARCHIVELOG` is enabled for the tenant. If an archive destination has been configured and archiving is enabled at the archive destination before `ARCHIVELOG` is enabled for the tenant, the system automatically triggers a log archiving job after `ARCHIVELOG` is enabled.

## Background information

Assume that the current cluster has three tenants: `sys`, `mysql_tenant`, and `oracle_tenant`, and that `ARCHIVELOG` is disabled for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants. You can enable `ARCHIVELOG` for a user tenant in the following ways.

## Enable ARCHIVELOG for a user tenant from the sys tenant

You can enable `ARCHIVELOG` for all tenants or a specified tenant in the cluster from the `sys` tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to enable `ARCHIVELOG`.

   * Enable `ARCHIVELOG` for all tenants in the cluster

      To enable `ARCHIVELOG` for all tenants in the cluster, execute the following statement:

     <main id="notice" type='explain'>
     <h4>Note</h4>
     <p>This operation takes effect only for existing tenants in the cluster. The system will not automatically enable <code>ARCHIVELOG</code> for tenants created after this operation. </p>
     </main>

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ARCHIVELOG [TENANT = ALL];
      ```

      In this example, after you execute this statement, `ARCHIVELOG` is enabled for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants. You can query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS` view in the `sys` tenant for the archiving modes of all tenants in the cluster.

      Here is an example:

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]> SELECT TENANT_NAME, LOG_MODE FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS WHERE TENANT_TYPE = 'USER'\G
      *************************** 1. row ***************************
      TENANT_NAME: mysql_tenant
         LOG_MODE: ARCHIVELOG
      *************************** 2. row ***************************
      TENANT_NAME: oracle_tenant
         LOG_MODE: ARCHIVELOG
      2 rows in set
      ```

   * Enable `ARCHIVELOG` for a specified tenant

      You can enable `ARCHIVELOG` for a specified tenant without affecting other tenants in the cluster.

      To enable `ARCHIVELOG` for the `mysql_tenant` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ARCHIVELOG TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

     <main id="notice" type='explain'>
     <h4>Note</h4>
     <p>If you specify multiple tenants, separate the tenant names with commas (,). </p>
     </main>

      After you execute this statement, only the `mysql_tenant` tenant enters the `ARCHIVELOG` mode in this example. You can query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS` view in the `sys` tenant for the archiving modes of all tenants in the cluster.

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> SELECT TENANT_NAME, LOG_MODE FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS WHERE TENANT_TYPE = 'USER'\G
      *************************** 1. row ***************************
      TENANT_NAME: mysql_tenant
         LOG_MODE: ARCHIVELOG
      *************************** 2. row ***************************
      TENANT_NAME: oracle_tenant
         LOG_MODE: NOARCHIVELOG
      2 rows in set
      ```

## Enable ARCHIVELOG for a user tenant from the current tenant

You can enable `ARCHIVELOG` for a user tenant from the current tenant without affecting other tenants.

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

   In this example, you can log on to the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `root` user, or log on to the `oracle_tenant` tenant as the `SYS` user.

2. Execute the following statement to enable `ARCHIVELOG` for the tenant:

   ```shell
   obclient [xxx]> ALTER SYSTEM ARCHIVELOG;
   ```

   After the statement is executed, you can query the `DBA_OB_TENANTS` view in this tenant for its archiving mode.

   ```shell
   obclient [SYS]> SELECT TENANT_NAME, LOG_MODE FROM DBA_OB_TENANTS\G
   *************************** 1. row ***************************
   TENANT_NAME: oracle_tenant
      LOG_MODE: ARCHIVELOG
   1 rows in set
   ```

## References

* [Suspend archiving](320.suspend-the-archiving.md)
* [Disable ARCHIVELOG](../300.log-archive/400.close-the-log-archive-mode.md)
* [View the archiving progress](../300.log-archive/600.view-log-archive-progress.md)
* [View the archiving history](../300.log-archive/700.view-log-archive-history.md)