# Disable log archiving

You can disable log archiving to stop the ongoing log archiving job for a tenant.

## Prerequisites

Before you disable log archiving for a tenant, make sure that the log archiving state machine of the tenant is in any of the `PREPARE`, `BEGINNING`, `DOING`, or `INTERRUPTED` state. For more information about the log archiving state machine, see [Overview](../300.log-archive/100.overview-of-log-archive.md).

## Background

Assume that the current cluster contains three tenants: `sys`, `mysql_tenant`, and `oracle_tenant`, and that log archiving is being performed for `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant`.

## Disable log archiving from the sys tenant

You can disable log archiving for all tenants or a specified tenant in the cluster from the `sys` tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of a cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statements to disable log archiving.

   * Disable log archiving for all tenants in the cluster

      To disable log archiving for all tenants in the cluster, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM NOARCHIVELOG TENANT=ALL;
      ```

   * Disable log archiving for a specified tenant in the cluster

      To disable log archiving for a specified tenant without affecting other tenants in the cluster, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM NOARCHIVELOG TENANT=MYSQL_TENANT;
      ```

        <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note:</h4>
        <p>If you specify multiple tenants, separate the tenant names with commas (<code>,</code>). </p>
        </main>

## Disable log archiving for a user tenant

You can disable log archiving for a user tenant without affecting other tenants.

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

   In this example, you can log on to the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `root` user, or to the `oracle_tenant` tenant as the `SYS` user.

2. Execute the following statements to disable log archiving.

   ```shell
   obclient [xxx]> ALTER SYSTEM NOARCHIVELOG;
   ```

## More information

* [View the archiving progress](../300.log-archive/600.view-log-archive-progress.md)

* [View the archiving history](../300.log-archive/700.view-log-archive-history.md)
