| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type ||

# Change the log archive destination

After you enable log archiving, you can change the log archive destination based on your business needs.

## Limitations

If you use Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) or an object storage service that is compatible with the S3 protocol as the archive destination type, the lag of log archiving, which is specified by the `archive_lag_targe` parameter, must be greater than or equal to 60 seconds. If you change the archive destination type from Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS), Network File System (NFS), or Tencent Cloud Object Storage (COS) to S3 or an object storage service compatible with the S3 protocol, but the current value of the `archive_lag_target` parameter is smaller than 60 seconds, an error is returned after you execute the statement that changes the archive destination.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant or a user tenant as the administrator.

2. Disable log archiving. For more information, see [Disable ARCHIVELOG](400.close-the-log-archive-mode.md).

3. Reconfigure the log archive destination.

   Make sure that the directory where the new log archive destination belongs is empty. For more information about how to configure the log archive destination, see the **Configure the archive destination** section in [Preparations](200.preparation-before-log-archive.md).

4. Query the `CDB_OB_ARCHIVE_DEST` view in the `sys` tenant or the `DBA_OB_ARCHIVE_DEST` view in a user tenant for the `LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST` column to verify whether the new log archive destination is successfully configured. For more information, see [View the archiving parameter settings](800.view-parameters-of-log-archive.md).

## What to do next

After you change the log archive destination, you must enable log archiving again. For more information, see [Enable ARCHIVELOG](300.open-the-log-archive-mode.md).

## References

* [Disable ARCHIVELOG](400.close-the-log-archive-mode.md)

* [Preparations](200.preparation-before-log-archive.md)

* [Enable ARCHIVELOG](300.open-the-log-archive-mode.md)