# Strings

A string is a sequence of characters enclosed in single quotation marks (`'`) or double quotation marks (`"`).

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>If the <code>ANSI_QUOTES</code> mode is enabled, you can quote a string only by using single quotation marks. The statements for setting and querying the ANSI_QUOTES mode are as follows:</p>
  </main>

```sql
obclient> SET sql_mode = 'ANSI_QUOTES';
obclient> SELECT @@sql_mode;
```

OceanBase Database supports the following two types of strings:

* Binary strings: The unit of a binary string is byte. Binary strings are compared based on their number of bytes. The character set and collation of a binary string are named `binary`.

* Non-binary strings: The unit of a non-binary string is character. Some character sets support multi-byte characters. Non-binary strings are compared based on their number of characters. A non-binary string supports multiple character sets other than `binary` and collations that are compatible with the corresponding character sets.

To specify the character set and collation for a string, use the following `COLLATE` clause:

```sql
[_charset_name]'string' [COLLATE collation_name]
```

You can use escape characters in a string to express special meaning. An escape character starts with a backslash (`\`) followed by a certain sequence. Escape characters are case-sensitive. For example, `\b` indicates a backspace, and `\B` indicates the character `B`.

The following table lists all escape characters supported in OceanBase Database.

| Escape character | Description |
|------|-------------------------------------|
| `\b` | A backspace. |
| `\f` | A form feed. |
| `\n` | A line feed. |
| `\r` | A carriage return. |
| `\t` | A tab character. |
| `\\` | A backslash (\\). |
| `\'` | A single quotation mark ('). |
| `\"` | A double quotation mark ("). |
| `\_` | An underscore (_). |
| `\%` | A percent sign (%). |
| `\0` | NULL |
| `\Z` | The Ctrl-Z character. It is encoded by the number 26 in ASCII. |
