| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Numbers

OceanBase Database supports decimal and hexadecimal numbers.

## Decimal numbers

Decimal numbers can be divided into exact numbers and floating-point numbers. Exact numbers can be divided into integers and fixed-point numbers. You can add a decimal point (`.`) to a decimal number as a decimal separator. You can also add a minus sign (`-`) before a decimal number to indicate a negative value.

`DECIMAL` data type is a fixed-point data type that is used for precise calculations. The `FLOAT` and `DOUBLE` data types are floating-point data types that are used for approximate calculations.

An exact number can be an integer or a decimal. It can also contain both an integer and a fractional part. Here are some examples: 1, .2, 3.4, -5, -6.78, and +9.10.

The approximate value of a number is expressed in the scientific notation format with a mantissa and an exponent. Here are some examples: 1.2E3, 1.2E-3, -1.2E3, and -1.2E-3.

Two values that look the same may be different. For example, 2.34 is an exact fixed-point number, while 2.34E0 is the approximate value of a floating-point number.

## Hexadecimal numbers

All hexadecimal numbers are integers. A hexadecimal number starts with `X` or `0x` and contains letters from `A` to `F`. All letters in a hexadecimal number are case-insensitive.

Here are examples of valid hexadecimal numbers:

```sql
X'01AF'
X'01af'
x'01AF'
x'01af'
0x01AF
0x01af
```

Here is an example of an invalid hexadecimal number:

```sql
X'0H' (H is not a hexadecimal number)
```

A hexadecimal number prefixed with `X` must contain an even number of digits. Otherwise, a syntax error occurs. To avoid syntax errors, pad X-prefixed values with a `0` when necessary. For example, you can pad the value `X'FFF'` with a zero to `X'0FFF'`.

If a hexadecimal number prefixed with `0x` contains an odd number of digits, this number is treated as having a leading `0`. For example, `0xaaF` is treated as `0x0aaF`.

By default, a hexadecimal number is a binary string, and each pair of the hexadecimal digits represents a character:

```sql
obclient> SELECT 0x5461626c65, CHARSET(0x5461626c65);
+--------------+-----------------------+
| 0x5461626c65 | CHARSET(0x5461626c65) |
+--------------+-----------------------+
| Table        | binary                |
+--------------+-----------------------+
1 row in set
```

An empty hexadecimal value `X' '` is evaluated as a zero-length binary string. `X' '` is converted to a number and returns `0`:

```sql
obclient> SELECT X''+0;
+-------+
| X''+0 |
+-------+
|     0 |
+-------+
1 row in set
```

To convert a string or number to a hexadecimal string, use the `HEX()` function:

```sql
obclient> SELECT HEX('dog');
+------------+
| HEX('dog') |
+------------+
| 646F67     |
+------------+
1 row in set

obclient> SELECT X'646F67';
+-----------+
| X'646F67' |
+-----------+
| dog       |
+-----------+
1 row in set
```
