# Overview

This topic describes the tools that you can use to connect to and access OceanBase Database, which are OceanBase Client (OBClient), OceanBase Developer Center (ODC), and OceanBase driver.

## OBClient

OBClient is an interactive query tool that supports batch processing. It must be installed separately. OBClient provides a CLI and acts as the client when it is connected to OceanBase Database. It supports Oracle and MySQL tenants in OceanBase Database.

Before you use OBClient to connect to an OceanBase Database tenant, you must specify the connection information of the tenant. After you connect to OceanBase Database, you can use OBClient to run some database commands (including general MySQL commands) and execute some SQL and PL/SQL statements for the following purposes:

* Computing, storing, and generating query results

* Creating database objects and checking and modifying object definitions

* Developing and running batch-processing scripts

* Managing databases and modifying parameters

## ODC

ODC is an enterprise-level database development platform tailored for OceanBase Database.

ODC is compatible with both MySQL and Oracle tenants in OceanBase Database. It provides database developers with various features, such as daily development, WebSQL-based workspace, SQL diagnostics, session management, and data import and export.

## OceanBase drivers

OceanBase driver allows applications to connect to OceanBase Database so that you can connect to your OceanBase database and execute SQL statements in other languages, such as Java and Python, or environments.

* OceanBase Connector/J uses the standard Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) APIs for Java applications to connect to OBServers. The installation package of OceanBase Connector/J is named `oceanbase-client-[version No.].jar`.

   Python applications can also call OceanBase Connector/J to connect to OceanBase Database without the need for a Python module.

* The OceanBase Call Interface (OBCI) driver is a driver compatible with Oracle Call Interface (OCI) using the C language. Applications developed based on OCI can be driven by OBCI and support Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

   OBCI provides standard database access features in the form of a dynamic-link library (OBCI library). Applications can use the features by connecting to this library.

