# Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient

OceanBase Client (OBClient) is a CLI tool dedicated to OceanBase Database. You can use it to connect to two types of OceanBase Database tenants: MySQL tenants and Oracle tenants. This topic describes the prerequisites and connection procedure.

## Prerequisites

Contact OceanBase Technical Support to obtain the installation package of OBClient and install it correctly.

## Procedure

1. Open a CLI terminal.

2. Specify the operating parameters of OBClient in the following format:

   ```sql
   $obclient -h10.0.0.0 -P2881 -usys@Oracle -p_**1***_ -A
   ```

   > **Note**
   >
   > Parameters
   >
   > * -h: specifies the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is usually the IP address of an OBProxy.
   > * -u: specifies a tenant account in the **Username@Tenant name#Cluster name** or **Cluster name:Tenant name:Username** format. The default administrator username of an Oracle tenant is sys.
   > * -P: specifies the port for connecting to OceanBase Database, which is also the listening port of the OBProxy. Default value: 2883, which can be customized.
   > * -p: specifies the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible.
   > * -A: specifies not to retrieve the information of all tables to ensure a quick logon when you connect to OceanBase Database.

3. After the connection is created, the following default OBClient CLI prompt appears on the CLI terminal:

   ```sql
   obclient>
   ```

4. To exit the OBClient command line, enter Exit and press Enter, or press the shortcut key Ctrl+D.

## Examples

Use OBClient to connect to an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database:

```sql
$obclient -h10.0.0.0 -P2881 -usys@Oracle -p_**1***_ -A
obclient: [Warning] Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
Welcome to the OceanBase monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your OceanBase connection id is 3221688068
Server version: 5.7.25 OceanBase 3.2.1 (...) (Built Sep 30 2021 19:59:46)

<Omitted>

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient> SELECT SYSDATE FROM DUAL;

+-----------+
| SYSDATE   |
+-----------+
| 22-OCT-21 |
+-----------+
1 row in set

obclient> exit
Bye
```
