|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# ODP configuration management

The behavior of OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) is subject to its configurations. You can modify and view ODP configurations.

ODP stores configurations in a local file named `obproxy_config.bin` in `etc` under the boot directory of obproxy processes. You can view simple configurations in this file but cannot modify the file. Otherwise, a configuration exception occurs.

Currently, ODP configurations are at the process level and affect all ODP access requests. You cannot set ODP configurations at the tenant, cluster, or user level.

## Parameters

ODP parameters are classified into the following types:

* Parameters that can be dynamically modified

   These parameters take effect immediately after they are modified. For more information, see [Dynamically modifiable parameters](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-odp-en-10000000000864246).

* Parameters that cannot be dynamically modified

   These parameters take effect after you restart ODP. For more information, see [Parameters that are not dynamically modifiable](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-odp-en-10000000000864247).

* In-memory parameters

   Modifications to these parameters take effect only once. For more information, see [In-memory parameters](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-odp-en-10000000000864218).

## View ODP configurations

Log on to ODP by using the `root@proxysys` account. Specify the password that you set when you installed ODP. Run the following command to obtain specific ODP configurations:

```sql
SHOW proxyconfig [LIKE '%var_name%'];
```

To view all configurations, run `show proxyconfig`. The results are presented in a table, including the following information:

* name: the variable name.

* value: the variable value.

* info: the variable description, which introduces the purpose of the variable.

* need_reboot: indicates whether the modification takes effect after a restart. If the value is `true`, the modification takes effect after a restart.

* visible_level: not used.

## Modify configurations

You can modify ODP configurations by using one of the following methods:

* Append configurations to the `-o` parameter when you start ODP. Here is an example: `-o <var_name>=<var_value>`.

* Log on to ODP by using the `root@proxysys` account and run the `alter proxyconfig set <var_name>=<var_value>` command to modify configurations. If the need_reboot parameter is set to true for a configuration, the modification takes effect after a restart.

The following table lists the parameters whose configuration takes effect only once.

| Parameter | Default value | Description |
|-----------------------------------------|-------|---------------------------------------|
| refresh_json_config | false | Specifies whether to update the JSON configuration from ConfigServer.  |
| refresh_rslist | false | Specifies whether to update the RS list configuration from ConfigServer.  |
| refresh_idc_list | false | Specifies whether to update the IDC configuration from ConfigServer.  |
| refresh_config | false | Specifies whether to update all configurations from the MetaDB.  |
| partition_location_expire_relative_time | 0 | The validity period of all location caches. |

For more information about other ODP configurations, run the `show proxyconfig` command or read topics about ODP.

## Driver support

Operations of the ODP account `root@proxysys` are fully compatible with the MySQL protocol, and support the `COM_QUERY` field of MySQL. You can also manage ODP configurations by using MySQL drivers such as Java.
