# obdiag

In OceanBase Database, a native distributed database system, root cause analysis for faults is complex because many factors may be involved, such as the server environment, parameters, and running load. Experts must collect and analyze extensive information during troubleshooting. Therefore, OceanBase Diagnostic Tool (obdiag) is introduced to help efficiently collect information scattered on various nodes.

## What is obdiag?

obdiag is a CLI diagnostic tool designed for OceanBase Database. obdiag can scan and collect information such as logs, SQL audit records, and process stack information of OceanBase Database. You can use obdiag to collect diagnostic information with a few clicks when your OceanBase cluster is deployed in different modes, for example, by using OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) or OceanBase Deployer (OBD), or manually deployed based on relevant documentation.

## Features

* obdiag has the following features:

   * Easy deployment: You can deploy obdiag by using a RPM package or OBD with a few clicks. You can deploy it on an OBServer node or any server that can connect to nodes in the cluster.

   * Out-of-the-box: The Python packages required for the running of obdiag are all built-in packages. In other words, obdiag can directly run provided that the Python2 or Python3 environment exists on the server where obdiag is deployed.

   * Centralized collection: You need to deploy obdiag only on a single server rather than all servers. Then, you can execute collection or analysis commands on the server where obdiag is deployed to collect information scattered on various nodes.

* obdiag V1.2.1 and later allow you to collect the following information with a few clicks:

   * Logs of OceanBase Database
   * Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) reports (OCP Enterprise Edition required)
   * Host information
   * Stack information of OceanBase Database
   * Parsed commit logs (clogs) and SSTable logs (slogs)
   * Perf information of OceanBase Database
   * Execution details of parallel SQL statements
   * Logs of OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP)

## Version requirements

The following table describes the product versions supported by the features of obdiag V1.2.1.

| Feature | Supported versions |
|-------|------------|  
| Collect the logs of OceanBase Database with a few clicks | All versions of OceanBase Database |
| Collect AWR reports with a few clicks | OCP Enterprise Edition V3.3.0 and later |
| Collect host information with a few clicks | All versions of OceanBase Database |
| Collect the stack information of OceanBase Database with a few clicks | OceanBase Database ARM 64 |
| Collect parsed clogs and slogs with a few clicks | All versions of OceanBase Database |
| Collect the perf information of OceanBase Database with a few clicks | All versions of OceanBase Database |
| Collect the execution details of parallel SQL statements with a few clicks | OceanBase Database V3.0 and later |
| Collect the logs of ODP with a few clicks | All versions of ODP |

<!-- ## References

For more information about obdiag, see the [obdiag documentation](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/obdiag-cn).

* [obdiag V1.2.1 documentation](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-obdiag-cn-1000000000164123) -->
