Literals 
=============================



Text literals 
----------------------

A text literal is a string that is enclosed by single quotation marks (`'`) or double quotation marks (`"`). If you enable the `ANSI_QUOTES` mode, you can use only single quotation marks (`'`) to enclose strings.

Numeric literals 
-------------------------

Decimal numeric literals are divided into floating-point values and exact values that consist of integer and fixed-point values. Values can include a decimal point (`.`) as a decimal separator. Values that are prefixed with a minus sign (`-`) represent negative values.

Hexadecimal numeric literals only support integer values that are prefixed with `0X`, and allow letters from `A` to `F`. All letters are case-insensitive.

Datetime 
-----------------

Datetime literals can be in the text or numeric format.

* In the text format, you can use full separators, for example, `'2015-07-21 12:34:56.789'`. You can also use no separators, for example, `'20150721'`.




<!-- -->

* The numeric format allows you to use only a decimal point (`.`) to separate the seconds and microseconds, for example, `20150721123456.789`.

* A decimal point (`.`) must be used between seconds and microseconds. If you require other separators, we recommend that you use only common separators such as hyphens (`-`), forward slashes (`/`), and colons (`:`).

  






Escape characters 
--------------------------

An escape character is a backslash (`\`) that invokes an alternative interpretation on the following characters in a character sequence. Escape characters are case-sensitive. For example, `\b` represents the backspace and `\B` represents the `B` character.

The following table lists all escape characters.


| Escape character |         Description          |
|------------------|------------------------------|
| `\b`             | A backspace.                 |
| `\f`             | A form feed.                 |
| `\n`             | A line feed.                 |
| `\r`             | A carriage return.           |
| `\t`             | A tab character.             |
| `\\`             | A backslash (\\).            |
| `\'`             | A single quotation mark ('). |
| `\"`             | A double quotation mark ("). |
| `\_`             | An underscore (_).           |
| `\%`             | A percent sign (%).          |
| `\0`             | NULL                         |
| `\Z`             | ASCII 26 (Ctrl+Z).           |


