# Overview

OceanBase Database is an enterprise-grade distributed database management system (DBMS) with excellent transactional and analytical processing capabilities. It is used in various business scenarios and has a complete peripheral support system.

As a proprietary DBMS, OceanBase Database supports both hybrid transactional and analytical processing (HTAP) with a single architecture, which combines the high scalability of a distributed system and the high efficiency of a centralized system.

OceanBase Database provides the same atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID) capability in both centralized and distributed modes. It uses the Paxos protocol-based multi-replica synchronization algorithm, which guarantees consistency among multiple data replicas. In case a hardware failure occurs, OceanBase Database can quickly perform a replica switchover to ensure the availability of database services. In addition, it is compatible with MySQL syntaxes, making it easy to migrate your data from a MySQL database to an OceanBase database. Moreover, OceanBase Database uses code-based compression to significantly reduce storage space required.

OceanBase Database ranks No.1 in the TPC-C benchmark test with a performance result of 707.35 million tpmC and ranks No.2 in the TPC-H benchmark test with a performance result of 15.26 million QphH@30,000 GB.

OceanBase Database has supported the stable and efficient operation of core business systems of customers in various industries, such as banking, insurance, transportation, and telecommunications.

## Core features

OceanBase Database provides the following features:

### High availability

OceanBase Database implements a unique disaster recovery solution with five IDCs across three regions, which sets forth a new standard for lossless disaster recovery in the financial industry. OceanBase Database supports multi-active IDCs deployed across multiple regions for zone- and geo-disaster recovery, which meets the Level 6 disaster recovery requirements of the financial industry with a recovery point objective (RPO) of 0 and a recovery time objective (RTO) of less than 8 seconds.

### High compatibility

OceanBase Database is highly compatible with most general features of MySQL, and supports advanced features such as procedural language and triggers. OceanBase Migration Service (OMS), an automatic migration tool, is provided to support reverse synchronization to ensure data migration security when a core system is migrated to OceanBase Database in key industries such as finance, public governance, and communication service.

### Scaling out

OceanBase Database supports rapid transparent horizontal scaling in response to business fluctuations, and achieves high performance based on a quasi-memory transaction processing architecture. You can deploy thousands of nodes in an OceanBase cluster, where the maximum data volume can exceed 3 PB and a single table can contain trillions of rows.

### Low costs

OceanBase Database adopts a storage engine based on the log-structured merge-tree (LSM-tree), which can achieve a high compression ratio and reduce storage costs by 70% to 90%. OceanBase Database also supports native multitenancy, which means that the same cluster can serve multiple business lines with the data of one tenant isolated from that of others. These features reduce deployment and O&M costs.

### Real-time HTAP

OceanBase Database uses the same database engine to perform online real-time transactions and real-time analysis on the same set of data. Multiple replicas of the same set of data can be stored in different forms for different purposes. This fundamentally ensures data consistency.

### Security and reliability

The OceanBase team has been independently developing OceanBase Database for 12 years and has full control over its source code. The integrated architecture of OceanBase Database has reliably supported large-scale financial core systems for nine years. In addition to a sound roles and permissions management system, OceanBase Database also meets the Level 3 requirements of Multi-Level Protection Scheme (MLPS).

### Complete ownership of intellectual property rights

OceanBase Database is developed independently by Ant Group. It is not based on open-source databases such as MySQL or PostgreSQL. OceanBase Database is autonomous, controllable, and free from the technical limits of open-source databases.


<!-- ### Compatibility with products from Chinese manufacturers

OceanBase Database supports products from Chinese manufacturers in full stack. OceanBase Database can work on physical servers from Chinese manufacturers including Sugon H620 series, TaiShan 200 series, and Great Wall Optimus DF720. OceanBase Database is also adaptive to CPUs including Hygon 7185/7280, Kunpeng 920, and FeiTeng 2000+. In addition, OceanBase Database supports operating systems from Chinese manufacturers, such as Kylin V4, Kylin V10, and UOS V20. OceanBase Database is also adaptive to upper-layer middleware including TongWeb V7.0 and Apusic Application Server V9.0. -->