Overview of transactions 
=============================================

This topic introduces the definition of transactions and basic transaction control statements. 

A transaction is a series of SQL statements that OceanBase Database processes as a whole. This means that the execution of these statements is either all successful or all failed with no in-betweens. 

Generally, the SQL statements in a transaction include both data manipulation language (DML) statements and query statements. A transaction that contains only query statements is generally called a read-only transaction. 

The basic transaction control statements include:

* BEGIN: explicitly starts a transaction This command is optional. If the session-level `autocommit` variable is set to off, transactions are manually committed, and you do not need to explicitly run this command. If session-level `autocommit` is set to on, transactions are automatically committed, and each SQL statement is considered a transaction on its own. If you want a transaction that includes more than one statement, you must explicitly run the BEGIN command.

  

* SAVEPOINT: marks a point in the transaction, so that after the transaction is executed, you can roll back the statements after the savepoint. Savepoints are optional. A transaction can have multiple savepoints.

  

* COMMIT: ends the current transaction, permanently applies all the modifications in the transaction, deletes all the savepoints, and releases the locks that the transaction holds.

  

* ROLLBACK: rolls back all the modifications in a transaction or the modifications after a specific savepoint. Deletes all the savepoints in the statements that are rolled back and releases the locks that the transaction holds.

  




If you use OBClient, you can run a transaction control command after an SQL prompt. You can also control whether transactions are manually or automatically committed by setting the session-level `autocommit` variable. The modification of the session-level `autocommit` variable takes effect after you disconnect from a session and then reconnects. 

If you use a graphical user interface GUI tool, such as DBeaver, you can run transaction control commands in its SQL editing window, or click the Commit or Rollback icon in the toolbar. 
**Note**



If the session-level `autocommit` variable is set to `off` and a transaction is not explicitly committed, when the program exits abnormally, OceanBase Database automatically rolls back the last committed transaction. We recommend that you explicitly commit and roll back transactions.
