Levels of transaction isolation 
====================================================

This topic describes the levels of transaction isolation in OceanBase Database and how to configure it. 

ANSI, ISO, and IEC define four isolation levels based on the SQL standard. OceanBase Database supports the following isolation levels:

* MySQL mode

  * Read committed

    
  
  * Repeatable read

    
  

  




By default, OceanBase Database uses the read committed isolation level. 

Set isolation level 
----------------------------------------

You can set an isolation level to the transaction level or the session level.

* Transaction level

  ```sql
  obclient> SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL SERIALIZABLE;
  ```

  

*
  Session level

  ```sql
  obclient> ALTER SESSION SET ISOLATION_LEVEL = SERIALIZABLE;
  ```

  




Take note of the following items when you set the isolation level:

* You cannot set the isolation level of a transaction that is being executed, otherwise, the following error is reported: 

  ```sql
  ERROR:ORA-01453: SET TRANSACTION must be first statement of transaction
  ```

  

* You must set the transaction isolation level to the session level when you start a transaction. This isolation level can be overridden by isolation levels at the transaction level. 

  You can execute the following statement to view the current transaction isolation level:

  ```sql
  obclient> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'tx_isolation';
  ```

  




Use constraints 
------------------------------------

* Internal transaction

  An internal transaction can either be triggered by a user transaction or occurs when an internal table is modified. Internal transactions use the read committed isolation level.
  

* Cross-tenant transaction

  Cross-tenant transactions may occur because some internal tables have not been assigned to common tenants.
  



