# Recycle bin

The recycle bin stores objects such as databases and tables deleted by users.

The recycle bin functions as a data dictionary table, storing information about deleted objects. Objects in the recycle bin still occupy physical space unless they are manually cleared by using the `PURGE` command or periodically deleted by the system.

## Objects in the recycle bin

In the current version, indexes, tables, databases, and tenants can be moved to the recycle bin. You can delete tenants only in the `sys` tenant. Therefore, MySQL and Oracle user tenants can be moved only to the recycle bin of the `sys` tenant after they are dropped.

* In the `sys` tenant, you can manage databases, tables, indexes, and tenants in the recycle bin.

* In a MySQL user tenant, you can manage databases, tables, and indexes in the recycle bin.

* In an Oracle user tenant, you can manage tables and indexes in the recycle bin.

## Considerations

* If you delete an index directly, the index is not moved to the recycle bin. However, when you delete a table, any associated indexes are moved to the recycle bin along with the table.

* When database objects are restored by using the FLASHBACK command, the objects are restored in the sequence of databases > tables.

* Indexes cannot be restored directly. When you restore a table, indexes on the table are restored together with the table.

* You cannot query for or perform DML operations on objects in the recycle bin. Only two DDL operations are supported: PURGE and FLASHBACK.

* Objects in the recycle bin still occupy storage space.

## References

For more information about the recycle bin, see the following topics:

* [Enable or disable the recycle bin](2.turn-the-recyclebin-on-or-off.md)

* [View objects in the recycle bin](3.view-the-recyclebin-objects.md)

* [Restore objects from the recycle bin](4.restore-the-recyclebin-objects.md)

* [Purge the recycle bin](5.purge-the-recyclebin.md)
