# Glossary

**Execution plan**

An execution process generated by the optimizer for an SQL statement, which is generally expressed as a tree of operators.

**Local plan**

If an execution plan involves only a single table or a single partition of a partitioned table, and the table or partition is in the current node, the plan is defined as a local plan.

**Remote plan**

When an execution plan involves only a single table or a single partition of a partitioned table, and the table or partition is in a node other than the current one, the plan is defined as a remote plan.

**Distributed plan**

When an execution plan involves multiple tables or partitions, the plan is defined as a distributed plan.

**Access path**

The method by which a table is accessed, including primary table access and secondary index access. For more information, see [Access path](400.sql-optimization/600.query-optimization/100.access-path/100.access-path-overview.md).

**Join order**

The order by which tables are joined. Currently, OceanBase Database supports only left-deep join trees. For more information, see [Join order](400.sql-optimization/600.query-optimization/200.join-algorithm/400.join-order.md).

**Join algorithm**

The algorithm for joining two tables, which may be the nested loop join, merge join, or hash join.

**Query rewrite**

A process that changes your query to an equivalent alternative with a better execution plan.

**Execution plan binding**

A process that allows you to specify the execution plan of an SQL statement by using a given outline. For more information, see [Plan binding](400.sql-optimization/700.manage-execution-plans/200.plan-binding.md).

**SQL plan management (SPM)**

SPM is a plan evolution mechanism. With the evolution mechanism, the optimizer verifies if any new plan will cause a performance regression. In the case of a performance regression, the plan is rejected.

**Adaptive Cursor Sharing (ACS)**

A mechanism that allows the optimizer to store multiple plans for each parameterized SQL and select the appropriate plan based on the selection probability space of predicates in an SQL statement.

**Data flow object (DFO)**

Taking data redistribution points as the boundary, a distributed plan is divided into multiple logical subplans that can be executed concurrently. Each subplan is encapsulated in a DFO.
