# Split a resource pool

To fully utilize resources in daily scenarios, you can split a multi-zone resource pool of a tenant into multiple single-zone resource pools and reconfigure resources for each zone.

## Limitations

Only the `sys` tenant can split a resource pool.

## Background information

In daily scenarios, you can execute the following statement to create a resource pool:

```sql
obclient>CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT='uc0', UNIT_NUM=1, ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3');
```

Resource pool `pool1` is applied to zones `z1`, `z2`, and `z3` that use the same unit config `uc0`. However, the available resources of the physical servers in zones `z1`, `z2`, and `z3` may vary greatly. Therefore, if the three zones use the same unit config `uc0`, resources of physical servers in each zone cannot be fully utilized. In this case, you can split a multi-zone resource pool into multiple single-zone resource pools and configure resources for each single-zone resource pool.

Sample statement:

```sql
ALTER RESOURCE POOL SPLIT INTO ('pool_name' [, 'pool_name' ...]) ON ('zone' [, 'zone' ...])
```

## Sample procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Split the resource pool `pool1` into `pool10`, `pool11`, and `pool12`, and specify new resource unit configurations for the new resource pools.

   ```shell
   obclient>ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 SPLIT INTO ('pool10','pool11','pool12') ON ('z1','z2','z3');

   ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool10 UNIT='uc1';

   ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool11 UNIT='uc2';

   ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool12 UNIT='uc3';
   ```

   After the resource pool is split into multiple resource pools, the new resource pools still use the original unit configs by default. You can adjust the resource configurations of the new resource pools based on the resource usage in each zone.
