# Remove a resource pool from a tenant

You can use the `ALTER TENANT` statement to remove a resource pool from a tenant.

Sample SQL statement:

```sql
ALTER TENANT tenant_name RESOURCE_POOL_LIST [=](pool_name [, pool_name...]) ;
```

Notes:

* This statement can be executed only by the administrator of the `sys` tenant.

* This statement can delete only one resource pool specified by `RESOURCE_POOL_LIST` at a time.

Usually, you can remove a resource pool from a tenant to decrease the number of replicas of the tenant.

## Background

A cluster spans zones `z1`, `z2`, `z3`, `z4`, and `z5` that belong to the same region, and one OBServer node is deployed in each zone. The cluster has a normal tenant named `tenant1`. The locality information is `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5', resource_pool_list=('pool1','pool2')`, and the resource distribution in the resource pools is defined by `CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 1, ZONE_LIST ('z1', 'z2', 'z3')` and `CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 UNIT 'uc2', UNIT_NUM 1, ZONE_LIST ('z4', 'z5')`.

Based on business needs, the number of replicas of `tenant1` needs to be decreased from 5 to 3, and the number of resource pools needs to be decreased to 1. That is, the locality of the tenant needs to be changed to `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,', resource_pool_list=('pool1')`.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Modify the locality of `tenant1` to delete replicas in z4:

   Based on the locality modification rule, you can delete only one zone at a time. For more information about the locality modification rule, see [Overview](../../../4.replica-management/5.locality-management/1.locality-overview.md).

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4';

   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3';
   ```

3. Delete the `pool2` resource pool from `z4` and `z5`.

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 RESOURCE_POOL_LIST =('pool1') ;
   ```

## More information

In other scenarios, you can modify the configurations and number of resource units in a resource pool to adjust the resources available for a tenant. For information about how to modify the configurations of a resource unit, see [Modify configurations of a resource unit](../3.management-resource-unit/2.modify-the-configuration-of-a-resource-unit.md). For information about how to modify the number of resource units in a resource pool, see [Modify a resource pool](3.modifies-the-resource-pool.md).
