Commit a transaction 
=========================================



When you commit a transaction, you persist all changes performed in the transaction, delete the savepoints, and release all transaction locks. 

To explicitly commit a transaction, use either the COMMIT statement or click the Commit button in the graphic user interface (GUI) tool. 
**Note**



OceanBase issues an implicit COMMIT statement before and after a DML statement, which also commits a transaction.

* If you use the BEGIN statement to start a new transaction, you must use the COMMIT statement to commit the transaction after executing a DML statement. 

  Before you commit a transaction:
  * Your changes are visible to the current session, not others.

    
  
  * Your changes are not final and you can roll them back with a ROLLBACK statement.

    
  

  

  After you commit a transaction:
  * Your changes are visible to all database sessions.

    
  
  * Your changes are persisted and you cannot roll them back with a ROLLBACK statement.

    
  

  

* If you do not use an explicit BEGIN statement to start a new transaction, an SQL statement is treated as a transaction and you do not need to commit a transaction. After the SQL statement is executed, your changes are persisted. You cannot roll them back with a ROLLBACK statement.

  




Example: Committing a transaction 
------------------------------------------

```javascript
obclient> insert into t_insert(id,name) values(4,'JP');
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)

obclient> commit;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

obclient> ^Bye

$obclient -h192.168.0.0 -utpcc@obbmsql#obdemo -P2883 -p**1***  TPCC
Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient> select * from t_insert;
+----+------+-------+---------------------+
| ID | NAME | VALUE | GMT_CREATE          |
+----+------+-------+---------------------+
|  1 | CN   | 10001 | 2020-04-02 17:52:31 |
|  2 | US   | 10002 | 2020-04-02 17:52:38 |
|  3 | EN   | 10003 | 2020-04-02 17:52:38 |
|  4 | JP   |  NULL | 2020-04-02 17:53:34 |
+----+------+-------+---------------------+
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```


