|description|   |
|-----------|---|
|keywords   |   |
|dir-name   |   |
|dir-name-en|   |
|tenant-type|   |

# Network failure

Network failure is often caused by various factors such as a single node's network card or network cable failure, a network equipment failure in an IDC (Internet Data Center), or inter-IDC transmission jitter. To address clear network issues, OceanBase recommends isolating the faulty component before conducting analysis.

## Scenario

In the event of network failure or jitter, an election without a leader will be repeatedly initiated among the partitions in the cluster. This is manifested at the application layer as application request timeouts and failed writes.

## Emergency handling procedure

First, check whether there are any network monitoring metrics showing packet loss, timeout retransmission, etc.

Run the `tsar --tcp -i 1 -d20190902` command. If `retran >= 0.05` is observed for 10 consecutive seconds, it indicates a network transmission failure.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>In the previous command, replace <code>20190902</code> with the specific date you want to check, and <code>-i 1</code> specifies a record interval of 1 minute. </p>
  </main>

Occasional network jitter can be temporarily ignored. However, if network jitter leads to node or IDC failures, follow the instructions below.

### Single node network failure

If it is a single node's a network failure, such as a high retransmission rate, run the `stop server` command to isolate the node. Once the single node's network issue is addressed, run the `start server` command to reactivate the node. If it is further determined that the network card of the node is faulty, replace the faulty node.

### IDC network jitter

For network jitter affecting the entire IDC, run the --`stop zone` command to temporarily isolate the replicas in the faulty IDC. Once the network is restored, run the --`start zone` command to reactivate the IDC.
