|description|   |
|-----------|---|
|keywords   |   |
|dir-name   |   |
|dir-name-en|   |
|tenant-type|   |

# ODP failure

ODP (obproxy) related failures mainly fall into two categories: one is the failure of the obproxy node itself, and the other is the failure of the load balancing components (usually F5, LVS, SLB, etc.) at the upper layer of a cluster composed of multiple obproxy nodes. This topic provides information on how to handle the failure of the obproxy node itself in emergency situations.

## Emergency handling procedure

Failures caused by obproxy itself generally fall into the following situations:

* The obproxy process frequently exits due to the out-of-memory (OOM) error.

   If the obproxy process exits due to insufficient memory, you can find the following error message in the obproxy log: `obproxy's memory is out of limit's 90%`. You can modify the upper memory limit that the obproxy can occupy through the `proxy_mem_limited` parameter. If the obproxy memory usage exceeds this limit, the obproxy process exits. The value range of this parameter is `[100 MB, 100 GB]`. The modification immediately takes effect without the need for a restart.

   * If the obproxy is deployed through OCP, the default startup configuration already sets this parameter to 2 GB. In this scenario, the parameter value can be increased to 8 GB.

   * If the obproxy is deployed through the command line without explicitly specifying the memory size, the default value for `proxy_mem_limited` is 800 MB. In this scenario, you can try increasing the parameter value to 2 GB as follow:

      ```sql
      ALTER proxyconfig SET proxy_mem_limited = 2G;
      ```

* The obproxy cannot automatically restart due to the abnormal daemon process.

   In this scenario, you can manually restart the obproxy.
