# Preparations before recovery

Before you restore data, you must create resources, set the encryption configuration, and set the recovery configuration.

## Usage notes

Before you recover data, you must confirm the version of the OceanBase database that hosts the backup data to be recovered. OceanBase Database supports only the recovery of backup data to OceanBase Database of the same or a later version. For example, backup data of OceanBase Database V4.0.0 can be recovered only to OceanBase Database V4.0.0 or later.

Backup data in OceanBase Database earlier than V4.0.0 cannot be recovered to OceanBase Database V4.0.0.

## Preparations before recovery

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of a cluster as the `root` user.

2. Create a resource unit.

   Example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT box_16c96g MAX_CPU 16, MEMORY_SIZE = '2G', MAX_IOPS 10240, MIN_IOPS=10240;
   ```

   For more information about how to create a resource unit configuration, see [Create a resource unit configuration](../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/3.manage-resources/2.create-a-resource-unit.md).

3. Create a resource pool.

   Example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> CREATE RESOURCE POOL restore_pool unit = 'box_16c96g', unit_num = 1, zone_list = ('z1','z2','z3');
   ```

   For more information about how to create a resource pool, see [Create a resource pool](../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/3.manage-resources/4.create-a-resource-pool.md).

4. Execute the following statement to set the encryption configuration:

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note:</h4>
   <p>If the data to be recovered is not encrypted, or Key Management Service (KMS) of the original version is available, skip this step. </p>
   </main>

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET @kms_encrypt_info = '<encryption string>';
   ```

   Set `<encryption string>` to the value of `EXTERNAL_KMS_INFO`. `EXTERNAL_KMS_INFO` is a tenant-specific parameter.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note:</h4>
   <p><code>external_kms_info</code> is used to store specific key management information. For more information about this parameter, see <a href="../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/4.tenant-level-configuration-items/11.external_kms_info.md">external_kms_info</a>. </p>
   </main>

5. Confirm the recovery configuration.

   Check whether the value of `restore_concurrency` is `0`. `0` indicates that recovery concurrency is disabled. You can set this parameter as needed. If the value is `0`, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET restore_concurrency = 10;
   ```

6. Optional. Set a recovery password.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET DECRYPTION IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
   ```

   A recovery password is required only when a password has been specified during backup. If the passwords for full backup and incremental backup are different, multiple passwords must be entered and separated with commas (,). Example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET DECRYPTION IDENTIFIED BY 'password1', 'password2';
   ```

## Subsequent operations

[Perform physical recovery](2.initiate-the-tenant-restore.md)
