# Perform physical recovery

This topic describes how to perform tenant-level physical recovery by using an SQL statement. OceanBase Database supports tenant-level full recovery based on points in time.

After you execute the recovery statement, the system recovers the required macroblock data from the corresponding full and incremental backups at the backup destination to the destination tenant and then pulls and replays the transaction logs.

## Prerequisites

The preparations before recovery are complete. For more information, see [Preparations](1.preparation-before-recovery.md).

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of a cluster as the `root` user.

2. Optional. Execute the following statement to set a recovery password for the backup.

   You need to set a recovery password for the backup only if a password is added during data backup.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET DECRYPTION IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
   ```

   In the statement, `password` must be replaced with the password added during data backup. If the password for full backup is different from the password for incremental backup, you must enter the password for full before the password for incremental backup and separate them with a comma.

   Example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET DECRYPTION IDENTIFIED BY '******';

   obclient [(none)]> SET DECRYPTION IDENTIFIED BY '******','******';
   ```

3. Set the `restore_concurrency` parameter.

   `restore_concurrency` specifies whether recovery is allowed in the cluster. Default value: 0. Value range: [0, 512]. This parameter is obsolete in OceanBase Database V4.1 and later versions. For more information about the `restore_concurrency` parameter, see [restore_concurrency](../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/170.restore_concurrency.md).

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET restore_concurrency = 10;
   ```

4. Execute the following statement to start a recovery job:

   Sample statement:

   * Recover to a specified timestamp

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE dest_tenant_name FROM uri UNTIL TIME=timestamp WITH restore_option [DESCRIPTION description];
      ```

   * Recover to a specified SCN

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE dest_tenant_name FROM uri UNTIL SCN=scn WITH restore_option [DESCRIPTION description];
      ```

   * Recover to the latest checkpoint

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE dest_tenant_name FROM uri WITH restore_option [DESCRIPTION description];
      ```

   Parameters:

   * `uri` specifies the data backup path and log archive path, and `UNTIL [TIME|SCN]` specifies the end checkpoint for recovery.

   * To recover to a specified `TIME` or `SCN`, you must join the parameter name and value with an equal sign (`=`).

   * In `restore_option`, you can specify `pool_list`, `locality`, `primary_zone`, and `kms_encrypt`. `pool_list` is required and the others are optional.

   For more information about the parameters in the statements, see [Parameters related to physical recovery](7.parameters-of-the-restore.md).

   Examples:

   * NFS

      * Recover the `mysql` tenant from the data backup path `file:///data/nfs/backup/data` and log archive path `file:///data/nfs/backup/archive` to the specified timestamp `2022-06-1 00:00:00`, and set the resource pool to `restore_pool`.

         ```shell
         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' UNTIL TIME='2022-06-1 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool';
         ```

      * Recover the `mysql` tenant from the data backup path `file:///data/nfs/backup/data` and log archive path `file:///data/nfs/backup/archive` to the latest archive checkpoint, and set the resource pool to `restore_pool`.

         ```shell
         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool';
         ```

      * Recover the `mysql` tenant from the data backup path `file:///data/nfs/backup/data` and log archive path `file:///data/nfs/backup/archive` to the specified SCN `1658285759724047000`, and set the resource pool to `restore_pool`.

         ```shell
         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' UNTIL SCN='1658285759724047000' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool';
         ```

      * Recover the `mysql` tenant from the data backup path `file:///data/nfs/backup/data` and log archive path `file:///data/nfs/backup/archive` to the specified timestamp `2022-06-1 00:00:00`. Specify the resource pool to `restore_pool` and the locality of replicas to `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3`.

         ```shell
         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' UNTIL TIME='2022-06-1 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool&locality=F@z1,F@z2,F@z3';
         ```

      * Recover the `mysql` tenant from the data backup path `file:///data/nfs/backup/data` and log archive path `file:///data/nfs/backup/archive` to the specified timestamp `2022-06-1 00:00:00`. Set the resource pool to `restore_pool`, the locality of replicas to `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3`, and `primary_zone` to `z1`.

         ```shell
         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'file:///data/nfs/backup/data,file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' UNTIL TIME='2022-06-1 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool&locality=F@z1,F@z2,F@z3&primary_zone=z1';
         ```

   * Object Storage Service (OSS)

      Except for the `url` parameter, the settings of other parameters are consistent with those when `NFS` is used.

      * Recover the `mysql` tenant from the OSS backup path `oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/data/?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx` and OSS log archive path `oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive/?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx` to the specified timestamp `2022-06-1 00:00:00`, and set the resource pool to `restore_pool`.

         ```shell
         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE mysql FROM 'oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/data/?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx,oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive/?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx' UNTIL TIME='2022-06-1 00:00:00' WITH 'pool_list=restore_pool';
         ```

5. (Optional) After you create a meta tenant corresponding to the tenant to be recovered, set the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter to specify the backend scheduling weight of the recovery task to speed up the recovery.

   1. Query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS` view to check whether the meta tenant is created.

      Sample statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS;
      ```

      In the query results, tenant names starting with `META$` in the `TENANT_NAME` column indicate meta tenants. Meta tenants in the `TENANT_STATUS_NORMAL` state are successfully created.

      For more information about the fields in the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS` view, see [oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS](../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/4.system-view-of-mysql-mode/2.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/58.oceanbase-dba_ob_tenants-of-mysql-mode.md).

   2. Set the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter.

      `ha_low_thread_score` specifies the current number of high-availability low-priority worker threads. Default value: 0. Value range: [0, 100]. We recommend that you set this parameter to 10. For more information about the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [ha_low_thread_score](../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/4.tenant-level-configuration-items/43.ha_low_thread_score.md).

      Sample statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score =10 TENANT = mysql;
      ```

## Subsequent operations

After you initiate a recovery job, you can query the corresponding views to check the recovery progress and results. For more information, see [Query the recovery progress](4.view-the-restore-progress.md).

Physical recovery is associated with the physical standby database. A physically recovered tenant serves as a standby tenant. You can change its role to the primary tenant based on your business needs. For more information about how to change the role of a backup tenant to the primary tenant, see [Change the role of a backup tenant to the primary tenant](6.active-standby-tenant.md).

## References

For more information about recovery, see [Recovery architecture](../../../7.reference/1.oceanbase-database-concepts/10.high-data-reliability-and-availability/5.backup-and-recovery/4.recovery-architecture.md).
