# Change the role of a backup tenant to the primary tenant

After the recovery succeeded, the recovered tenant is a backup tenant. You must execute the ACTIVATE statement to change the role of the backup tenant to the primary tenant.

## Background

Physical recovery is associated with the physical standby database. A physically recovered tenant serves as a standby tenant. You can change its role to the primary tenant based on your business needs.

## Prerequisites

The recovery succeeded. For more information about how to view the recovery result, see [Query the recovery result](5.view-the-restore-history.md).

## Change the role of a backup tenant to the primary tenant in the sys tenant

Procedure:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of a cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to change the role of the backup tenant.

   Sample statement:

   ```sql
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY TENANT tenant_name;
   ```

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note:</h4>
   <p>You can use this statement to change the role of only one tenant at a time. To change the roles of multiple tenants, execute this statement repeatedly. </p>
   </main>

   Example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY TENANT mysql;
   ```

   For more information about the parameters in the statement, see [Parameters related to physical recovery](7.parameters-of-the-restore.md).

## Change the role of a backup tenant to the primary tenant in the backup tenant

Procedure:

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of the backup tenant.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note:</h4>
        <p>The administrator user is <code>root</code> in MySQL mode and <code>SYS</code> in Oracle mode. </p>
   </main>

2. Execute the following statement to change the role of the backup tenant.

   Sample statement:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ACTIVATE STANDBY;
   ```
