# Add zones to a cluster

This topic describes how to scale out a cluster by adding zones to the cluster.

## Add zones to a cluster by using SQL statements

You can use SQL statements to add zones to a cluster. For example, you can use this method to increase the number of replicas from 3 to 5 for a tenant. When you add zones to a cluster, you must add the same number of OBServer nodes to each new zone as that of an existing zone.

Assume that the current cluster has three zones, which are `z1`, `z2`, and `z3`. The three zones belong to the same region, and each zone has one OBServer node. The cluster has a user tenant named `tenant1`, and the locality information is `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3', resource_pool_list=('pool1');`. Assume that you need to increase the number of replicas from 3 to 5 for `tenant1` to meet the business needs. You must change the locality of the tenant from `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3` to `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5`.

To add zones to the cluster and change the tenant locality, perform the following steps:

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Create `z4` and `z5` in the cluster that includes three zones: `z1`, `z2`, and `z3`.

   For more information about how to create zones in a cluster, see [Create or delete a zone](../../../../200.basic-database-management/100.manage-clusters/400.manage-zones-in-a-cluster/200.add-or-remove-a-zone.md).

3. Add an OBServer node to each of the `z4` and `z5` zones.

   For more information about how to add an OBServer node to a zone, see [Add a node](../../../../200.basic-database-management/100.manage-clusters/500.manage-observer/100.add-observer.md).

4. Add resources to `z4` and `z5` for `tenant1`.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>To add tenant resources after zones are added, you can increase the usage scope of the tenant resource pool by setting the ZONE_LIST parameter or creating a new resource pool and allocating the resource pool to the tenant. The following example describes how to create a new resource pool and allocate it to the tenant. For more information about how to set the ZONE_LIST parameter, see <a href="../../../../200.basic-database-management/400.manage-tenants/1300.modify-the-resource-configuration-of-a-tenant.md">Modify the resource configurations of a tenant</a>. </p>
   </main>

   1. Create a resource unit and a resource pool.

      ```sql
      obclient>CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit2 MAX_CPU 1, MIN_CPU=1, MEMORY_SIZE '5G', MAX_IOPS 1024, MIN_IOPS=1024, IOPS_WEIGHT=0,LOG_DISK_SIZE = '2G';

      obclient>CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 unit = 'unit2', unit_num = 1, zone_list=('z4','z5');
      ```

   2. Add resources to `z4` and `z5`.

      ```sql
      obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 RESOURCE_POOL_LIST =('pool1', 'pool2') ;
      ```

5. Modify the locality of the tenant to add replicas.

   Based on the locality modification rule, you can add only one zone at a time. For more information about the locality modification rule, see [Locality overview](../../../../../../600.manage/300.replica-management/200.replica-distribution/100.locality-overview.md).

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4';

   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5';
   ```

   The scale-out process is completed.
