|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# OceanBase-specific views

OceanBase-specific views display information specific to OceanBase Database.

## Concept

OceanBase Database defines and implements a series of views to display the metadata and system status information of databases, including information about tables, columns, indexes, users, roles, and privileges. These views are usually stored in the system tablespace, are read-only, and cannot be modified or deleted.

## Storage location

OceanBase-specific views of MySQL tenants and the `sys` tenant are stored in the `oceanbase` database, and those of Oracle tenants are stored in the `SYS` schema.

## View types

### Different view types by scenario

OceanBase-specific views can be classified into data dictionary views and dynamic performance views by scenario and the information displayed.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>An <code>OB_*</code> prefix is used to distinguish OceanBase-specific views from other views. </p>
</main>

#### Data dictionary views

OceanBase-specific data dictionary views include the following types:

* DBA_OB_*

   Views visible only to the `sys` tenant display information about database objects managed by the `sys` tenant, such as the `DBA_OB_SERVERS` and `DBA_OB_UNITS` views.
   Views that are accessible to all tenants and display the information about OceanBase database objects at the tenant level, such as `DBA_OB_LS_LOCATIONS` and `DBA_OB_TABLEGROUPS`.

* CDB_OB_*

   Views that display the information about database objects of all tenants and are accessible in the `sys` tenant only, which are usually tenant-level data dictionary views prefixed with `DBA_OB_`, such as `CDB_OB_LS_LOCATIONS` and `CDB_OB_TABLEGROUPS`.

#### Dynamic performance views

OceanBase-specific dynamic performance views include the following types:

* GV$OB_*

   Views of this type display the running status and performance metrics of the entire cluster. They provide global status information and are accessible in the entire cluster.
   The information returned varies based on the access privileges.
   * If you query a view from the `sys` tenant, information about all tenants is returned.
   * If you query a view from a user tenant, information about the current tenant is returned.

* V$OB_*

   Views of this type display the running status and performance metrics of only the node to which the client connects. To obtain the status information about other nodes, query `GV$OB_*` views.

In versions earlier than OceanBase Database V4.0.0, some OceanBase-specific views do not have the `OB_` prefix, such as `v$plan_cache_stat` and `v$obrpc_outgoing`.
In OceanBase Database V4.0.0 and later, all OceanBase-specific views have the `OB_` prefix in their names, such as `V$OB_PLAN_CACHE_STAT` and `V$OB_RPC_OUTGOING`.

### Different view types by access privilege

OceanBase-specific views can be classified into data dictionary views of the `sys` tenant and tenant-level data dictionary views by access privilege.

#### Data dictionary views of the sys tenant

The `sys` tenant data dictionary views are accessible only to the system administrator (SYSDBA) and system user (SYS). These views display the metadata and system status information of the entire database, including information about tables, columns, indexes, users, roles, and privileges. These views are usually stored in the system tablespace and read-only. You cannot modify or delete them.

#### Tenant-level data dictionary views

Tenant-level data dictionary views are accessible to regular users and tenant administrators. These views display the metadata and system status information of the current tenant, including information about tables, columns, indexes, users, roles, and privileges. These views are usually stored in the user tablespace and read-only. You cannot modify or delete them.
A `sys` tenant data dictionary view can display the metadata and system status information of the entire database, including information of all tenants. A tenant-level data dictionary view can display the metadata and system status information of only the current tenant, and cannot display information about other tenants.

## References

* [Standard views](100.standard-view-overview-of-mysql-mode.md)
* [MySQL-compatible views](300.mysql-compatible-standard-view-of-mysql-mode.md)
