| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# MySQL-compatible views

This topic describes relevant views of OceanBase Database in MySQL mode.

## Storage location

MySQL-compatible views are stored under Information_schema and MySQL tenants.

## View types

MySQL-compatible views include views prefixed with `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.` and `mysql.`. The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database allows you to access data stored in data dictionary tables by using INFORMATION_SCHEMA views and SHOW statements.

### INFORMATION_SCHEMA.*

A view prefixed with `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.` displays database metadata of a MySQL tenant, including the database names, table names, column data types, and access permissions. `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` is also called a data dictionary or a system catalog. `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` is a database or schema in a MySQL tenant and is used to store information about all other databases maintained by the MySQL tenant. The `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` database contains several read-only tables. These tables are actually views rather than base tables.

### mysql.*

A view prefixed with `mysql.` provides access to tables that store the server runtime information of OceanBase Database in MySQL mode, which typically includes data dictionary tables that store database object metadata and system tables that are used for other operational purposes. The OceanBase database is compatible with some `mysql.*` views. For example, the `mysql.help_*` view provides some help information on the server side. The `mysql.time_zone_*` view displays information related to the time zone. The `mysql.user` and `mysql.db` views record some information related to user privileges.

## References

* [Standard views](100.standard-view-overview-of-mysql-mode.md)
* [OceanBase-specific views](200.oceanBase-own-standard-view-of-mysql-mode.md)