|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Oracle-compatible views in MySQL tenants

This topic describes some Oracle-compatible views in a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database.

## Storage location

Oracle-compatible views in MySQL tenants and the `sys` tenant are stored in the OceanBase database and can be accessed only from MySQL tenants and the `sys` tenant.

## Characteristics

Oracle-compatible views in MySQL tenants have the following similarities with and differences from standard Oracle views.

* Similarities:
   * The view names are prefixed with `DBA_`.
   * The column names and implementation are consistent with standard Oracle views prefixed with `DBA_`.
* Differences:

   The columns with the same name have different meanings. In standard Oracle views, the `OWNER` column represents `USER`, while the `CON_ID` column represents `container_id`. However, in a MySQL tenant, they correspond to `Database` and `tenant_id` respectively.

## View types

Oracle-compatible views in MySQL tenants include data dictionary views and dynamic performance views.

* Data dictionary views are prefixed with `oceanbase.DBA_` and display information about some database objects in the current tenant.
* Dynamic performance views are prefixed with `oceanbase.V$` or `oceanbase.GV$`. Almost every view prefixed with `oceanbase.V$` has a corresponding view prefixed with `oceanbase.GV$`. In an OceanBase cluster, all views prefixed with `oceanbase.GV$` that meet the conditions are returned when you query `oceanbase.V$*` views.

## References

* [OceanBase-specific views](200.oceanBase-own-standard-view-of-mysql-mode.md)
* [MySQL-compatible views](300.mysql-compatible-standard-view-of-mysql-mode.md)
