|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Oracle-compatible views in the sys tenant

A MySQL tenant supports some CDB_* views that are compatible with Oracle databases.

## Storage location

Oracle-compatible views in the `sys` tenant are stored in the OceanBase database and can be accessed only from the `sys` tenant.

## Characteristics

* In Oracle-compatible views prefixed with `CDB_`, `CON_ID` represents the tenant ID, while in OceanBase-specific views (prefixed with `DBA_OB_`, `GV$OB_`, and so on) uses `TENANT_ID`.
* `DATA_OBJECT_ID` in Oracle-compatible views in the `sys` tenant corresponds to `TABLET_ID` in OceanBase-specific views.
* `OWNER` in Oracle-compatible views in the `sys` tenant corresponds to `database` in MySQL-compatible views.

## View types

Oracle-compatible views in the `sys` tenant contain only data dictionary views named in the `oceanbase.CDB_*` format.
Views of this type provide information about some database objects in the `sys` tenant and user tenants, including all object information, partition information, and table information. Oracle databases provide standard data dictionary views for these database objects. These views can be accessed cross tenants. For example, `CDB_OBJECTS` can display the information about database objects of all tenants.

## References

* [OceanBase-specific views](200.oceanBase-own-standard-view-of-mysql-mode.md)
* [MySQL-compatible views](300.mysql-compatible-standard-view-of-mysql-mode.md)
