# INET6_ATON

## Syntax

```sql
INET6_ATON(expr)
```

## Purpose

`INET6_ATON()` converts a specified IPv6 or IPv4 address into a binary string that represents the address value in big-endian network order.

An IPv6 address in the numeric format requires more bytes than the maximum integer type. Therefore, this function returns a `VARBINARY` value. `VARBINARY(16)` indicates an IPv6 address, and `VARBINARY(4)` indicates an IPv4 address. It returns `NULL` if the argument is not a valid address.

Limitations on arguments of the `INET6_ATON()` function are as follows:

* Zone IDs are not allowed at the end of an address, as in fc50::3%1 or fc50::3%eth1.

* Subnet masks are not allowed at the end of an address, as in 2002:45f:3:ba::/64 or 198.xx.100.0/24.

* Only a classless address can be used to represent the value of an IPv4 address. A classful address such as 198.51.1 will be rejected.

* Port numbers are not allowed at the end of an address, as in 198.xx.100.2:8082.

* Hexadecimal numbers are not allowed in an address, as in 198.0xa0.1.2.

* Octal numbers are not supported. For example, 198.xx.010.1 is considered 198.xx.10.1 rather than 198.xx.8.1.

These limitations on IPv4 addresses also apply to IPv6 addresses containing an IPv4 address part, such as IPv4-compatible IPv6 addresses or IPv4-mapped addresses.

To convert an IPv4 address specified by `expr` of the `INT` data type into an IPv6 address of the `VARBINARY` data type, use the following syntax:

```sql
INET6_ATON(INET_NTOA(expr))
```

## Examples

```sql
obclient> SELECT HEX(INET6_ATON('fdfe::5a55:caff:fefa:9089'));
+----------------------------------------------+
| HEX(INET6_ATON('fdfe::5a55:caff:fefa:9089')) |
+----------------------------------------------+
| FDFE0000000000005A55CAFFFEFA9089             |
+----------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```
