# BIN_TO_UUID

## Syntax

```sql
BIN_TO_UUID(binary_uuid), BIN_TO_UUID(binary_uuid,swap_flag)
```

## Purpose

`BIN_TO_UUID()` converts a binary UUID to a string UUID and returns the result. The value of `binary_uuid` must be a UUID of the VARBINARY(16) data type. The return value is a 128-bit number conforming to UUID v1. It is a `utf8mb3` string that consists of five hexadecimal numbers separated with dashes. The format is the same as that of the `UUID()` function: `aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-eeeeeeeeeeeeee`.

- The first three numbers are generated from the low, middle, and high parts of a timestamp. The high part also includes the UUID version.
- The fourth number preserves temporal uniqueness in case the timestamp value loses monotonicity (for example, due to daylight saving time).
- The fifth number is an IEEE 802 node number that provides spatial uniqueness. If no IEEE 802 node number is available, a random number can be used, but spatial uniqueness cannot be guaranteed in this case.

If the UUID argument is `NULL`, the return value is `NULL`. If any argument is invalid, an error occurs.

You can specify a single argument or two arguments in the syntax of `BIN_TO_UUID()`.

- Specify only a binary UUID value. It is assumed that the time-low and time-high parts or the UUID value are not swapped. The returned string is in the same order as the binary argument.
- Specifies a binary UUID value and a `swap_flag` value.
   - If the `swap_flag` value is 0, the two-argument form is equivalent to the one-argument form. The returned string is in the same order as the binary argument.
   - If the `swap_flag` value is 1, it is assumed that the time-low and time-high parts of the UUID value are swapped. These parts are swapped back to their original positions in the result value.

`BIN_TO_UUID()` is an inverse function of `UUID_TO_BIN()`. For more information about examples and time part swapping rules, see `UUID_TO_BIN()`.
