| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Functions that create geometry values

You can use functions in this topic to create a geometry object from a well-known text (WKT) representation or a well-known binary (WKB) representation of an input geometry. OceanBase Database supports the following functions that create geometry values in the current version: `ST_GeomFromText()`, `ST_GeometryFromText()`, `ST_GeomFromWKB()`, and `ST_GeometryFromWKB()`.

## ST_GeomFromText and ST_GeometryFromText

The `ST_GeomFromText()` and `ST_GeometryFromText()` functions take the WKT representation and optional spatial reference system identifiers (SRIDs) as arguments and return the corresponding geometry objects. For more information about the WKT format, see [Spatial data formats](../../100.basic-elements-of-mysql-mode/100.data-type-of-mysql-mode/900.spatial-data-type-of-mysql-mode/500.spatial-data-format-of-mysql-mode.md).

The `ST_GeomFromText()` function accepts a WKT value of any geometry type as its first argument. Other functions provide type-specific constructors for constructing geometry values for each geometry type.
The syntaxes of the functions are as follows:

```sql
ST_GeomFromText(wkt [, srid [, options]]), ST_GeometryFromText(wkt [, srid [, options]])
```

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient [test]> SET @geo = "MULTILINESTRING((10 10, 11 11), (9 9, 10 10))";
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]> SELECT ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo));
+--------------------------------------------+
| ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo))           |
+--------------------------------------------+
| MULTILINESTRING((10 10,11 11),(9 9,10 10)) |
+--------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## ST_GeomFromWKB and ST_GeometryFromWKB

The `ST_GeomFromWKB()` and `ST_GeometryFromWKB()` functions take, as arguments, BLOBs that contain WKB representations and optional SRIDs, and return the corresponding geometry objects. For more information about the WKB format, see [Spatial data formats](../../100.basic-elements-of-mysql-mode/100.data-type-of-mysql-mode/900.spatial-data-type-of-mysql-mode/500.spatial-data-format-of-mysql-mode.md).

The syntaxes of the functions are as follows:

```sql
ST_GeomFromWKB(wkb [, srid [, options]]), ST_GeometryFromWKB(wkb [, srid [, options]])
```

## Considerations for parameters

The return value for a geometry argument in a function that creates geometry values is not `NULL`, except in the following cases:

- If any geometry argument is `NULL` or is in an incorrect syntactic format, the return value is `NULL`.

- The optional `options` argument enables the latitude and longitude of the geographic coordinates to be resolved in the order specified by the spatial reference system (SRS) of the geometry argument. `options` consists of a comma-separated list of `key=value` pairs. `key` can only be set to `axis-order`, and `value` can be `lat-long`, `long-lat`, or `srid-defined` (default). If `options` is `NULL`, the return value is `NULL`. If the `options` argument is invalid, an error is reported.

- If the `SRID` argument references an undefined SRS, the `ER_SRS_NOT_FOUND` error occurs.

- For geographic SRS geometry arguments, if the longitude or latitude of any argument exceeds the valid range in degrees or in other units used by the SRS, an error is reported.

   - If the longitude value is not within the range of (-180, 180], the `ER_LONGITUDE_OUT_OF_RANGE` error occurs.

   - If the latitude value is not within the range of [−90, 90], the `ER_LATITUDE_OUT_OF_RANGE` error occurs.
