| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Geometry processing functions

Geometry processing functions operate or transform geometry objects, such as modifying shapes, calculating geometric relations, performing spatial queries, and conducting other spatial analysis.

OceanBase Database supports the `_ST_MakeValid()` function of this type.


## _ST_MakeValid

In a geographic information system (GIS), spatial data often needs to meet certain validity criteria. For example, a valid polygon must be simple (not self-intersecting) and correctly encircled (with clockwise outer rings and counterclockwise inner rings). A polygon is invalid when it intersects with itself, has overlapping rings, or has an exposed hole.

The `_ST_MakeValid()` function fixes invalid geometries, such as polygons. `_ST_MakeValid()` supports projected coordinate systems (PCSs) only, and does not support geographic coordinate systems (GCSs).

- `_ST_MakeValid()` accepts only input geometries that use a PCS. A PCS is a planar coordinate system that represents a location on Earth using two coordinates.

- A GCS is based on the Earth's latitude and longitude system, which takes into account the curvature of the Earth. `_ST_MakeValid()` does not support GCSs, so input geometries of the function cannot use coordinates based on latitude and longitude.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
_ST_MakeValid(geometry input)
```

where

- `geometry input` indicates the input parameter of the function, which represents the geometry object to be fixed. It can be a geometry object of any type, such as a Point, LineString, or Polygon object.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient >select st_astext(_st_makevalid(st_geomfromtext('POLYGON((0 0,1 1,2 2,0 2,1 1,2 0,0 0))')));
```

In this example, `st_geomfromtext('POLYGON((0 0,1 1,2 2,0 2,1 1,2 0,0 0))')` converts a polygon in text format into a geometry object. The text string `'POLYGON((0 0,1 1,2 2,0 2,1 1,2 0,0 0))'` represents a sequence of vertex coordinates of a polygon. The polygon is invalid because it has self-intersecting vertices.

Then, `_ST_MakeValid(...)` fixes the invalid polygon passed in to make it a valid one.

Finally, `ST_AsText(...)` converts the valid polygon back to its WKT representation.

The return result is as follows:

```shell
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| st_astext(_st_makevalid(st_geomfromtext('POLYGON((0 0,1 1,2 2,0 2,1 1,2 0,0 0))'))) |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| MULTIPOLYGON(((1 1,2 2,0 2,1 1)),((1 1,0 0,2 0,1 1)))                               |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```
