| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Spatial relation functions

A spatial relation function tests the relations between geometry values `g1` and `g2` based on precise object shapes. The return values `1` and `0` indicate true and false, respectively, while a distance function returns the distance value. 

OceanBase Database supports the following spatial relation functions: `ST_Intersects()`, `ST_Contains()`, `ST_Distance()`, `ST_Distance_Sphere()`, `ST_Within()`, `ST_Crosses()`, `ST_Overlaps()`, `_ST_Touches()`, and `ST_Equals()`. 

## ST_Intersects

`ST_Intersects()` returns `1` or `0` to indicate whether `g1` intersects `g2` in space. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_Intersects(g1, g2)
```

## ST_Contains

`ST_Contains()` returns `1` or `0` to indicate whether `g1` completely contains `g2`. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_Contains(g1, g2)
```

## ST_Distance

`ST_Distance()` returns the distance between `g1` and `g2`, in the length unit of the spatial reference system (SRS) of the geometry argument. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_Distance(g1, g2 [, unit])
```

The `ST_Distance()` function supports an optional `unit` argument that specifies the linear unit of the distance value to return. If the `unit` argument is specified, the value is returned in the specified unit. 

For any argument invalid in geometry, the function may return any number or an error. If a `NaN` or negative number is generated as the intermediate or final result, the `ER_GIS_INVALID_DATA` error is returned.
Here is an example:

```sql
obclient [test]> SET @geo1 = ST_GeomFromText('POINT(1 1)', 4230);
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]> SET @geo2 = ST_GeomFromText('POINT(3 3)', 4230);
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]> SELECT ST_Distance(@geo1, @geo2);
+---------------------------+
| ST_Distance(@geo1, @geo2) |
+---------------------------+
|         313709.8158791322 |
+---------------------------+
1 row in set

obclient [test]> SELECT ST_Distance(@geo1, @geo2, 'metre');
+------------------------------------+
| ST_Distance(@geo1, @geo2, 'metre') |
+------------------------------------+
|                  313709.8158791322 |
+------------------------------------+
1 row in set

obclient [test]> SELECT ST_Distance(@geo1, @geo2, 'foot');
+-----------------------------------+
| ST_Distance(@geo1, @geo2, 'foot') |
+-----------------------------------+
|                1029231.6793934782 |
+-----------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## ST_Distance_Sphere

`ST_Distance_Sphere()` returns the minimum spherical distance between two Point or MultiPoint values on a sphere, in meters. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_Distance_Sphere(g1, g2 [, radius])
```

The optional `radius` argument should be in the unit of meters. If the `radius` argument exists but is set to a negative number, the `ER_NONPOSITIVE_RADIUS` error occurs. If the distance exceeds the range of a double-precision number, the `ER_STD_OVERFLOW_ERROR` error is returned. 

If both geometry arguments are valid Point or MultiPoint values in an SRS, the return value is the shortest distance between the two geometry objects on the sphere with a radius of `radius`. If the radius argument is omitted, the average radius is used by default, which is (2a+b)/3, where `a` is the semi-major axis of the SRS and `b` is the semi-minor axis. 

`ST_Distance_Sphere()` supports combinations of Point objects, or Point and MultiPoint objects, in any order. If at least one of the geometry objects is neither a Point object nor a MultiPoint object and its SRID is 0, the `ER_NOT_IMPLEMENTED_FOR_CARTESIAN_SRS` error is returned. If at least one of the geometry objects is neither a Point object nor a MultiPoint object and its SRID indicates a geographic SRS, the `ER_NOT_IMPLEMENTED_FOR_GEOGRAPHIC_SRS` error is returned. If any geometry object references a projected SRS, the `ER_NOT_IMPLEMENTED_FOR_PROJECTED_SRS` error is returned. 

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient [test]> SET @pt1 = ST_GeomFromText('POINT(0 0)');
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]> SET @pt2 = ST_GeomFromText('POINT(180 0)');
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]> SELECT ST_Distance_Sphere(@pt1, @pt2);
+--------------------------------+
| ST_Distance_Sphere(@pt1, @pt2) |
+--------------------------------+
|             20015042.813723423 |
+--------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## ST_IsValid

If the argument of the `ST_IsValid()` function is geometrically valid, `1` is returned. If the argument is geometrically invalid, `0` is returned. Geometric validity is defined by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) Abstract Specification. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_IsValid(g)
```

The only valid empty geometry object is an empty collection of geometry objects. In this case, the `ST_IsValid()` function returns `1`. GIS `EMPTY` values, such as `POINT EMPTY`, are not supported. 

```sql
obclient [test]> SET @ls_test1 = ST_GeomFromText('LINESTRING(0 0,-0.00 0,0.0 0)');
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]> SET @ls_test2 = ST_GeomFromText('LINESTRING(0 0, 1 1)');
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]> SELECT ST_IsValid(@ls_test1);
+------------------+
| ST_IsValid(@ls1) |
+------------------+
|                0 |
+------------------+
1 row in set

obclient [test]> SELECT ST_IsValid(@ls_test2);
+------------------+
| ST_IsValid(@ls2) |
+------------------+
|                1 |
+------------------+
1 row in set
```

## ST_Within

`ST_Within()` returns `1` or `0` to indicate whether `g1` is spatially within `g2`. It is opposite to `ST_Contains()`. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_Within(g1, g2)
```

## ST_Crosses

`ST_Crosses()` tests whether geometry objects `g1` and `g2` spatially cross. The function returns 1 if `g1` crosses `g2`. Otherwise, it returns 0. The `ST_Crosses()` function supports spatial indexes. 

Both `ST_Crosses(g1, g2)` and `ST_Intersects(g1, g2)` are spatial relation functions that test the spatial relations between two geometry objects, but their definitions and uses are slightly different. 

- `ST_Intersects(g1, g2)` tests whether two geometry objects intersect each other spatially, which means that the objects share at least one point (including bounding and interior points). 

   `ST_Intersects(g1, g2)` returns 1 as long as the two objects have an overlap, no matter if it is a point, line, or surface. 

- `ST_Crosses(g1, g2)` tests whether two geometry objects cross, that is, whether the interior of one geometry object partially passes through the interior of the other.
   Specifically, if two lines cross each other at more than two points in their interiors, `ST_Crosses(g1, g2)` returns 1. If a line passes through the interior of a surface, `ST_Crosses(g1, g2)` returns 1. 

Different from `ST_Intersects(g1, g2)`, `ST_Crosses(g1, g2)` does not consider full overlaps or boundary touches. 

`ST_Intersects(g1, g2)` tests whether two geometry objects have any kind of intersection, while `ST_Crosses(g1, g2)` specifically tests whether one geometry object passes through the other. For example, you may use `ST_Crosses(g1, g2)` to determine whether a road crosses a piece of land, and use `ST_Intersects(g1, g2)` to find all the routes that cover or touch this piece of land. 

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_Crosses(g1,g2)
```

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient > select st_crosses(st_geomfromtext('LINESTRING(1 1, 11 11)'), st_geomfromtext('POLYGON((0 0, 0 10, 10 10, 10 0, 0 0))'));
```

In this example, `ST_Crosses()` tests whether a LineString object, a straight line from point (1,1) to point (11,11), crosses a Polygon object, a square with vertices of (0,0), (0,10), (10,10), and (10,0). The return result is 1, indicating that the straight line crosses the polygon. 

The return result is as follows:

```sql
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| st_crosses(st_geomfromtext('LINESTRING(1 1, 11 11)'), st_geomfromtext('POLYGON((0 0, 0 10, 10 10, 10 0, 0 0))')) |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                                                                1 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## ST_Overlaps

`ST_Overlaps(g1,g2)` tests whether two geometry objects `g1` and `g2` spatially overlap. The containment relation is excluded. The function returns 1 if `g1` and `g2` overlap, and returns 0 if they do not overlap or one completely contains the other. The `ST_Overlaps(g1,g2)` function supports spatial indexes. 

If two lines share a segment but do not contain each other, `ST_Overlaps(g1,g2)` returns 1.
If two surfaces (such as polygons) partially overlap but do not coincide with each other, `ST_Overlaps(g1,g2)` returns 1. 

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_Overlaps(g1,g2)
```

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient > SELECT ST_OVERLAPS(ST_GEOMFROMTEXT('POLYGON((0 0,0 10,10 10,10 0,0 0,0 0),(2 2,2 4,4 4,4 2,2 2))'), ST_GEOMFROMTEXT('POLYGON((0 0,0 5,5 5,5 0,0 0))'));
```

In this example, `ST_Overlaps()` tests whether two polygons overlap. The first polygon `POLYGON((0 0,0 10,10 10,10 0,0 0,0 0),(2 2,2 4,4 4,4 2,2 2))` is a 10 ✖️ 10 square with a 2 ✖️ 2 hole (a small square inside). The second polygon `POLYGON((0 0,0 5,5 5,5 0,0 0))` is a 5 ✖️ 5 square located in the lower-left corner of the first polygon. The second polygon overlaps the interior of the first polygon but is not fully contained in the first polygon. Therefore, `ST_Overlaps()` returns 1. 

The return result is as follows:

```sql
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ST_OVERLAPS(ST_GEOMFROMTEXT('POLYGON((0 0,0 10,10 10,10 0,0 0,0 0),(2 2,2 4,4 4,4 2,2 2))'), ST_GEOMFROMTEXT('POLYGON((0 0,0 5,5 5,5 0,0 0))')) |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                                                                                               1 |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## _ST_Touches

`_ST_Touches(geometry A, geometry B)` tests whether two geometry objects `A` and `B` share at least one point on the boundary while their interiors do not intersect. The `_ST_Touches(geometry A, geometry B)` function supports spatial indexes. 

Take note that if both input geometry objects are Point objects, `_ST_Touches(geometry A, geometry B)` returns 0. This is because points do not have boundaries, and two points therefore cannot be considered "touching". They are either identical (that is, at the same position) or completely independent. 

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
_ST_Touches(geometry A, geometry B)
```

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient > SELECT _ST_Touches(st_geomfromtext('LINESTRING(0 0, 1 1, 0 2)'), st_geomfromtext('POINT(0 2)'));
```

In this example, `_ST_Touches()` tests whether a LineString object touches a Point object in space. Because the Point object (0 2) is at the end of the LineString object (0 0, 1 1, 0 2), the function returns 1, indicating that the two objects spatially touch. 

The return result is as follows:

```sql
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| _ST_Touches(st_geomfromtext('LINESTRING(0 0, 1 1, 0 2)'), st_geomfromtext('POINT(0 2)')) |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                                        1 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## ST_Equals

`ST_Equals(geometry A, geometry B)` tests whether two geometry objects `A` and `B` are spatially equal. That is, the function tests whether the two objects contain the same set of points that are at the same relative positions, but the function does not require the same sequence of points. 

In other words, if two geometry objects occupy the same spatial area in the same shape and size, `ST_Equals` returns 1. If two geometry objects differ in any way, even slightly in size or shape, `ST_Equals` returns 0. 

The `ST_Equals(geometry A, geometry B)` function supports spatial indexes. 

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_Equals(geometry A, geometry B);
```

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient > SELECT ST_Equals(ST_GeomFromText('LINESTRING(0 0, 10 10)'), ST_GeomFromText('LINESTRING(0 0, 5 5, 10 10)'));
```

In this example, `ST_Equals()` tests whether two LineString objects are spatially equal. The first LineString object is a simple straight line from (0 0) to (10 10). The second LineString object is also from (0 0) to (10 10), but passes through an intermediate point (5 5). Although the second LineString object contains an extra vertex, it covers the same set of points in space as the first LineString object. Therefore, `ST_Equals()` determines that the two LineString objects are spatially equal and returns the result 1. 

The return result is as follows:

```sql
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ST_Equals(ST_GeomFromText('LINESTRING(0 0, 10 10)'), ST_GeomFromText('LINESTRING(0 0, 5 5, 10 10)')) |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                                                    1 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## Considerations for parameters

The return value for a geometry argument in a spatial relation function is non-`NULL`, except in the following cases:

- If any argument is `NULL` or any geometry argument is an empty geometry object, the return value is `NULL`. 

- If any geometry argument is in an incorrect syntax format, the `ER_GIS_INVALID_DATA` error is returned. 

- If any geometry argument belongs to an undefined SRS, the `ER_SRS_NOT_FOUND` error is returned. 

- For a function that has multiple geometry arguments in different SRSs, the `ER_GIS_DIFFERENT_SRIDS` error is returned. 

- If any geometry argument is invalid, the result may be `True` or `False`, or an error may be returned. 

- For geographic SRS geometry arguments, if the longitude or latitude of any argument exceeds the valid range in degrees or in other units used by the SRS, an error occurs.

   - If the longitude value is not within the range of (-180, 180], the `ER_GEOMETRY_PARAM_LONGITUDE_OUT_OF_RANGE` error is returned. 

   - If the latitude value is not within the range of [−90, 90], the `ER_GEOMETRY_PARAM_LATITUDE_OUT_OF_RANGE` error is returned. 

- The coordinate precision in spatial calculation must be within the range of (-9.223e18, 9.223e18). Otherwise, an error is returned.

   ```sql
   obclient [test]> SELECT ST_CONTAINS(ST_GEOMFROMTEXT('MULTIPOLYGON(((0 1e+19,0 0,0 0,0 1e+19)))'), ST_GEOMFROMTEXT('POLYGON((0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0))'));
   ERROR 1690 (22003): coordinate value is out of range in 'st_contains'
   ```
