| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Geometry format conversion functions

A geometry format conversion function is used to convert geometry values in an internal geometry format into values in the well-known text (WKT) or well-known binary (WKB) format, or to change the sequence of X and Y coordinates. OceanBase Database supports the following geometry format conversion functions in the current version: `ST_AsBinary()`, `ST_AsWKB()`, `ST_AsText()`, and `ST_AsWKT()`. 

## ST_AsBinary and ST_AsWKB

The `ST_AsBinary()` and `ST_AsWKB()` functions convert values in an internal geometry format to their WKB representations and return binary results. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_AsBinary(g [, options]), ST_AsWKB(g [, options])
```

A return value of the functions has geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) in the sequence specified by the spatial reference system (SRS) that is applied to the geometry arguments. You can specify the optional `options` argument to override the default sequence of axes. 

```sql
SELECT ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromWKB(ST_AsWKB(@geo, 'axis-order=long-lat')));
```

## ST_AsText and ST_AsWKT

The `ST_AsText()` and `ST_AsWKT()` functions convert values in an internal geometry format to their WKT representations and return string results. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_AsText(g [, options]), ST_AsWKT(g [, options])
```

A return value of the functions has geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) in the sequence specified by the spatial reference system (SRS) that is applied to the geometry arguments. You can specify the optional `options` argument to override the default sequence of axes. 

```sql
obclient [test]> SET @geo = 'LINESTRING(0 6,6 12,12 18)';
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient [test]>  SELECT ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo));
```

The return result is as follows:

```shell
+----------------------------------+
| ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo)) |
+----------------------------------+
| LINESTRING(0 6,6 12,12 18)       |
+----------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## Considerations for parameters

The return value for a geometry argument in a geometry format conversion function is non-`NULL`, except in the following cases:

- If any geometry argument is in an incorrect syntax format, the `ER_GIS_INVALID_DATA` error is returned. 
- If any geometry argument is in an undefined SRS, the axes are output in the sequence in which they appear in the geometry, and the `ER_WARN_SRS_NOT_FOUND_AXIS_ORDER` alert is returned. 
- By default, the geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) are resolved in the sequence specified by the SRS of the geometry argument. You can specify the optional `options` argument to override the default sequence of axes. `options` consists of a comma-separated list of `key=value` pairs. `key` can only be set to `axis-order`, and `value` can be `lat-long`, `long-lat`, or `srid-defined` (default). If `options` is `NULL`, the return value is `NULL`. If the `options` argument is invalid, an error is reported. 
