| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Spatial accessor functions

Spatial accessor functions provide access to spatial data components, such as vertices of a polygon or the start point of a line.

OceanBase Database supports the following spatial accessor functions: `_ST_GeometryType`, `_ST_IsCollection`, and `_ST_NumInteriorRings`.

## _ST_GeometryType

`_ST_GeometryType()` returns the type of a geometry object. The function returns the type of the input geometry object in the format of `ST_[TYPE]` in compliance with the SQL/MM specification. For example, the function returns `ST_Point` for a point and `ST_LineString` for a line string.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
_ST_GeometryType(geometry g1);
```

where

- `geometry g1` indicates the input geometry object. It can be a geometry object of any type, such as a Point, LineString, or Polygon object.

Limitations are as follows:

- The input value must be a valid geometry object. If the input value is `NULL` or non-geometric data, the function may return an error or `NULL`.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient > SELECT _ST_GeometryType(ST_GeomFromText('LINESTRING(77.29 29.07,77.42 29.26,77.27 29.31,77.29 29.07)'));
```

In this example, `_ST_GeometryType()` checks the geometry object created by `ST_GeomFromText()` and returns the type of the object.

The return result is as follows:

```shell
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| _ST_GeometryType(ST_GeomFromText('LINESTRING(77.29 29.07,77.42 29.26,77.27 29.31,77.29 29.07)')) |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ST_LineString                                                                                    |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## _ST_IsCollection

`_ST_IsCollection()` tests whether the type of the input geometry object is a geometry collection type. In a geographic information system (GIS), a geometry collection is a set of geometry objects, such as points, lines, and polygons.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
_ST_IsCollection(geometry g1);
```

where

- `geometry g1` indicates the input geometry object, which must be valid. Geometry collection types mainly include:

   + `GEOMETRYCOLLECTION`: a collection of geometry objects of any type.
   + `MULTIPOINT`: a collection of points.
   + `MULTIPOLYGON`: a collection of polygons.
   + `MULTILINESTRING`: a collection of line strings.
   + `MULTICURVE`: a collection of curves (supported in some database systems only).
   + `MULTISURFACE`: a collection of surfaces (supported in some database systems only).
   + `COMPOUNDCURVE`: a composite curve that consists of multiple simple curves. This collection type is not supported in OceanBase Database currently.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient > SELECT _ST_IsCollection(st_geomfromtext('LINESTRING(0 0, 1 1)'));
```

In this example, the input geometry object is a `LINESTRING` object, which is a simple geometry type instead of a collection type. Therefore, 0 is returned after the SQL statement is executed.

The return result is as follows:

```shell
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| _ST_IsCollection(st_geomfromtext('LINESTRING(0 0, 1 1)')) |
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                         0 |
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## _ST_NumInteriorRings

`_ST_NumInteriorRings()` returns the number of interior rings of a Polygon object. An interior ring is the boundary of a hole or an island in a polygon. A hole is located inside the outer ring of a polygon. If a polygon has no interior ring, it does not have any hole.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
_ST_NumInteriorRings(geometry a_polygon);
```

where

- `geometry a_polygon` indicates the input parameter that represents the polygon to be tested. If the input geometry is not a polygon, the function returns `NULL`.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient > select _ST_NumInteriorRings(ST_GeomFromText('POLYGON((2 2 1,2 8 5,8 8 7,8 2 4,2 2 1))'));
```

In this example, the input polygon is defined in the well-known text (WKT) format with three-dimensional coordinates (x, y, and z). Although the z coordinate is provided, the specified polygon does not have an interior ring. Therefore, the returned value is 0.

The return result is as follows:

```shell
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| _ST_NumInteriorRings(ST_GeomFromText('POLYGON((2 2 1,2 8 5,8 8 7,8 2 4,2 2 1))')) |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                                 0 |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```
