# Deploy OceanBase Database via CLI in a production environment

This topic describes how to deploy OceanBase Database via OBD in a production environment.

<!-- <main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>OBD 除了支持通过命令行方式部署 OceanBase 数据库生产环境外，也支持通过白屏部署 OceanBase 集群环境。推荐您通过 OBD 白屏方式进行部署，详细操作步骤请参考 <a href="4.deploy-by-ui/1.deploy-by-obd.md">通过 OBD 白屏部署 OceanBase 集群</a>。</p>
</main> -->

## Terms

* Central control server

   The server that stores the installation package and cluster configuration information of OceanBase Database.

* Target server

   The server where you want to install OceanBase Database.

* OBD

   OceanBase Deployer (OBD) is a tool used to install and deploy OceanBase Database. For more information about OBD, see [OBD Documentation](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-obd-en-10000000000860039).

* ODP

   OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP), also known as OBProxy, is a high-performance reverse proxy server designed for OceanBase Database. For more information about ODP, see [ODP Documentation](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-odp-en-10000000000213151).

* OCP Express

   OCP Express is a web-based management tool for OceanBase Database 4.x. It offers support for both key performance and basic database management for the database cluster. For more information, see [OCP Express](../../../7.reference/6.oceanbase-tools/4.1.ocp-express.md).
## Prerequisites

Before you connect to OceanBase Database, make sure that the following prerequisites are satisfied:

* Your server meets the software and hardware requirements. For more information, see [Software and hardware requirements](../2.local-deployment/1.requirements-for-software-and-hardware.md).

* In the production environment, you must check the environment and configurations. For more information, see [Configuration before deployment](2.environment-and-configuration-checks/1.view-resources-optional.md).

* You have installed OBD for your central control server. For more information, see [Install and configure OBD](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-obd-en-10000000000862271).

* You have installed OBClient for your servers. For more information, see [OBClient Documentation](https://github.com/oceanbase/obclient/blob/master/README.md).

## Deployment mode

This topic describes a three-replica deployment mode. You can choose an appropriate deployment mode as needed. We recommend that you use four servers for this deployment mode. To be specific:

* Deploy ODP, Grafana, and Prometheus on one server. If you have installed or planned to install OCP, you do not need to install Grafana or Prometheus.

* Deploy the OceanBase cluster by using the other three servers.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>
    <p>Deploy your applications on the ODP server to minimize the latency of access between applications and ODP. You can deploy an ODP on each application server. In this example, ODP is deployed only on a separate server for ease of use. </p>
    </li>
    <li>
    <p>Hardware requirements of the ODP server can be different from those of servers for the deployment of OceanBase Database. The server where ODP is to be deployed requires only one CPU core and 1 GB of memory.
    </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>The following describes the deployment of OceanBase Database on an x86-based CentOS Linux 7.9 system. The procedure may be different on other operating systems. </p>
</main>

## Install and download the all-in-one package

OceanBase Database is available in an all-in-one installation package since V4.0.0. You can use this installation package to install OBD, OceanBase Database, ODP, OBAgent, Grafana, and Prometheus at a time. You can specify the components to install and the versions of them.

1. You can download the latest all-in-one package from [OceanBase Download Center](https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter). The package is named in the `oceanbase-all-in-one-4.xx.xx-xxx.tar.gz` format.

2. Run the following commands to decompress and install the package:

   ```bash
   tar -xzf oceanbase-all-in-one-4.xx.xx-xxx.tar.gz
   cd oceanbase-all-in-one/bin/
   ./install.sh
   ```

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>After installation, you must run the <code>source ~/.oceanbase-all-in-one/bin/env.sh</code> command. Directly running <code>which obd</code> will fail. </p>
   </main>

3. Run the `which obd` and `which obclient` commands to check whether OBD and OBClient are installed. If you can find the `obd` and `obclient` folders under the `oceanbase-all-in-one` directory, OBD and OBClient are installed.

   ```bash
   [root@test .obd]# which obd
   /root/.oceanbase-all-in-one/obd/usr/bin/obd
   [root@test .obd]# which obclient
   /root/.oceanbase-all-in-one/obclient/u01/obclient/bin/obclient
   ```

## Install OceanBase Database

We recommend that you switch to a non-root user to ensure data security.

1. Select a configuration file.

   All configuration files are stored in the `~/.oceanbase-all-in-one/conf` directory. You can also download the latest configuration file from [GitHub obdeploy](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/tree/master/example). Select a configuration file as needed.

   * Select the default configuration file `~/.oceanbase-all-in-one/conf/autodeploy/default-example.yaml`.

   * To deploy a standalone instance of OceanBase Database on a single server, modify the configuration file to adapt to standalone deployment.

2. Modify the configuration file.

   Take the distributed deployment of OceanBase Database and ODP as an example. Perform the following steps to modify the configuration file:

   1. Change the username and password.

      ```bash
      ## Only need to configure when remote login is required
      # user:
      #   username: your username
      #   password: your password if need
      #   key_file: your ssh-key file path if need
      #   port: your ssh port, default 22
      #   timeout: ssh connection timeout (second), default 30
      ```

   2. Modify the IP address, `home_path`, `data_dir`, and `redo_dir` of each server.

      ```bash
      oceanbase-ce:
        servers:
          - name: z1
            # Please don't use hostname, only IP can be supported
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.200
          - name: z2
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.201
          - name: z3
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.202
        global:
          # Please set devname as the network adaptor's name whose ip is in the setting of severs.
          # if set severs as "127.0.0.1", please set devname as "lo"
          # if current ip is 192.168.1.10, and the ip's network adaptor's name is "eth0", please use "eth0"
          devname: eth0
          # The working directory for OceanBase Database. OceanBase Database is started under this directory. This is a required field.
          home_path: /home/admin/oceanbase/ob
          # The directory for data storage. The default value is $home_path/store.
          data_dir: /data/ob
          # The directory for clog, ilog, and slog. The default value is the same as the data_dir value.
          redo_dir: /redo/ob
      ```

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note</h4>
        <p>You must modify the parameter values based on your actual configuration. </p>
    </main>

   3. Configure ODP and modify the IP address and `home_path`.

   ```bash
   obproxy-ce:
     servers:
       - 172.xx.xxx.203
     global:
       # The working directory for obproxy. Obproxy is started under this directory. This is a required field.
       home_path: /home/admin/obproxy
   ```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>You can use the online YAML Checker to validate your configuration files. </li>
    <li>In this example, the <code>autodeploy</code> option is used for installation and deployment. With the <code>autodeploy</code> option, hardware resources are automatically detected and the parameters are adjusted accordingly. This, however, may fail to maximize resource utilization. For example, if the hard disk space is insufficient, memory usage will be decreased. If you are familiar with the parameters of OceanBase Database, we recommend that you use the <code>deploy</code> option for installation and deployment. If you use the <code>deploy</code> option, the configuration files to be used are located in the <code>~/.oceanbase-all-in-one/conf</code> directory, rather than the <code>~/.oceanbase-all-in-one/conf/autodeploy</code> directory. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

## Deploy the OceanBase cluster

Run the following command to deploy the OceanBase cluster:

```bash
obd cluster autodeploy obtest -c default-example.yaml
```

If Grafana or Prometheus is installed, the access address of Grafana or Prometheus is output, as shown in the following table. In Alibaba Cloud or other cloud environments, the installation program may be unable to obtain a public IP address and therefore will output an internal IP address, which is 172.30.62.249 in this example. You must use the correct IP address.

```test
+------------------------------------------------------+
|                      prometheus                      |
+---------------------------+------+----------+--------+
| url                       | user | password | status |
+---------------------------+------+----------+--------+
| http://172.30.62.249:9090 |      |          | active |
+---------------------------+------+----------+--------+
```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Adaptation tests have been performed for the components in the all-in-one package, which contains the recommended component versions. If you want to install an earlier version or compiled version, you must clone the RPM packages to the repository of OBD in advance. Example: </p>
    <p><code></code><code>shell sudo yum install -y yum-utils sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://mirrors.aliyun.com/oceanbase/OceanBase.repo obd mirror clone oceanbase-ce-3.1.4-10000092022071511.el7.x86_64.rpm obd mirror clone oceanbase-ce-libs-3.1.4-10000092022071511.el7.x86_64.rpm obd cluster autodeploy obtest -c default-example.yaml &lt;code>&lt;/code></code></p>
  </main>

After deployment, you can run the following command to view the OceanBase cluster.

```bash
obd cluster list
```

## Modify the cluster configuration (Optional)

OceanBase Database has hundreds of parameters and some are coupled. We recommend that you do not modify parameters in the sample configuration file before you become familiar with OceanBase Database. The following example shows you how to modify a parameter and make it take effect.

```bash
# Run the edit-config command to enter the edit mode before you can edit the cluster configurations.
obd cluster edit-config obtest
# Change the value of the sys_bkgd_migration_retry_num parameter to 5.
# Note that the minimum value of the sys_bkgd_migration_retry_num parameter is 3.
# After you save the change and exit, OBD will inform you how to make it take effect.
# For this parameter, you only need to run the reload command to make it take effect.
obd cluster reload obtest
```

## Run the following command to connect to OceanBase Database:

Run the following command to connect to OceanBase Database by using the OBClient:

```bash
obclient -h<your_ip> -P<obproxy_port> -uroot
```

You need to replace `your_ip` with the IP address of the server where your OceanBase Database instance is located. By default, ODP connects to OBClient by using the port `2883`. Use the actual port number if you have changed it.

## Create a user tenant

You must create a user tenant before you use OceanBase Database. You can run your business data only in a user tenant.

You can create a user tenant by using the following method:

* Create a user tenant by using OBD.

   ```bash
   obd cluster tenant create ${cluster_name} -n ${tenant_name}
   ```

## Install components

We recommend that you use the all-in-one package to install the components. However, if you do not want to use the component versions provided in the all-in-one package, take the following steps to install them.

### Install OBD offline

Download the OBD installation package of the desired version from [OceanBase Download Center](https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter). We recommend that you download the latest version.

After you have downloaded the OBD installation package, copy it to your central control server.

In CentOS or Red Hat, run the following command to install OBD:

```bash
yum install ob-deploy-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

In Ubuntu or Debian, run the following command to install OBD:

```bash
alien --scripts -i ob-deploy-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

### Install OBClient offline

Download the OBClient installation package of the desired version from [OceanBase Download Center ](https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter). We recommend that you download the latest version.

After you have downloaded the OBClient installation package, copy it to your central control server.

In CentOS or Red Hat, run the following command to install OBClient:

```bash
yum install libobclient-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
yum install obclient-x.x.x-2.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

In Ubuntu or Debian, run the following command to install OBClient:

```bash
alien --scripts -i libobclient-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
alien --scripts -i obclient-x.x.x.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

### Install OceanBase Database and ODP

To ensure data security, we recommend that you switch to a non-root user before you install OceanBase Database and ODP.

To install OceanBase Database and ODP offline, download the installation packages of OceanBase Database, OBLibs, and ODP from [OceanBase Download Center](https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter).

* oceanbase-ce-x.x.x.x-xxxx.el7.x86_64

* oceanbase-ce-libs-x.x.x.x-xxxx.el7.x86_64

* obproxy-ce-x.x.x-x.el7.x86_64

After you have downloaded the required installation packages, copy them to your central control server.

Go to the directory of the installation packages and install OceanBase Database and ODP by taking the following steps:

1. Disable the remote repository

   ```bash
   obd mirror disable remote
   ```

   You must disable the remote repository if you want to install the software offline.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Skip this step if you install the software online in Anolis, CentOS, or Red Hat. </p>
  </main>

2. Add the installation packages to the local image

   ```bash
   obd mirror clone *.rpm
   ```

3. View the list of images

   ```bash
   obd mirror list
   ```

4. Select a configuration file

   * To deploy a standalone instance of OceanBase Database on a single server, use the `single-example.yaml` configuration file in the `/usr/obd/example/autodeploy/` directory for standalone deployment.

   * To deploy OceanBase Database on multiple servers, use the `default-example.yaml` configuration file in the `/usr/obd/example/autodeploy/` directory for distributed deployment.

   This example uses a configuration file for automatic deployment. During the automatic deployment of OceanBase Database, the highest specifications are configured based on simple configurations and the resources of the target server, after which OceanBase Database is automatically started.

5. Modify the configuration file

   Take the distributed deployment of OceanBase Database and ODP as an example. Perform the following steps to modify the configuration file:

   1. Change the username and password

      ```bash
      ## Only need to configure when remote login is required
      # user:
      #   username: your username
      #   password: your password if need
      #   key_file: your ssh-key file path if need
      #   port: your ssh port, default 22
      #   timeout: ssh connection timeout (second), default 30
      ```

   2. Modify the IP address, `home_path`, `data_dir`, and `redo_dir` of each server

      ```bash
      oceanbase-ce:
        servers:
          - name: z1
            # Please don't use hostname, only IP can be supported
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.200
          - name: z2
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.201
          - name: z3
            ip: 172.xx.xxx.202
        global:
          # Please set devname as the network adaptor's name whose ip is in the setting of severs.
          # if set severs as "127.0.0.1", please set devname as "lo"
          # if current ip is 192.168.1.10, and the ip's network adaptor's name is "eth0", please use "eth0"
          devname: eth0
          # The working directory for OceanBase Database. OceanBase Database is started under this directory. This is a required field.
          home_path: /home/admin/oceanbase/ob
          # The directory for data storage. The default value is $home_path/store.
          data_dir: /data/ob
          # The directory for clog, ilog, and slog. The default value is the same as the data_dir value.
          redo_dir: /redo/ob
      ```

        <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note</h4>
        <p>You must modify the parameter values based on your actual configuration. </p>
        </main>

   3. Configure ODP and modify the IP address and `home_path`

   ```bash
   obproxy-ce:
     servers:
       - 172.xx.xxx.203
     global:
       # The working directory for obproxy. Obproxy is started under this directory. This is a required field.
       home_path: /home/admin/obproxy
   ```

   You can use the online YAML Checker to validate your configuration files.
