# Reference a sequence

After you create a sequence, you can reference the sequence. 

To use a sequence, you must qualify `CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL` with the name of the sequence followed by a period (.). 

For example, if the name of the sequence is `SEQ_FOO`, you can use `SEQ_FOO.CURRVAL` to query the current value of the `SEQ_FOO` sequence. Likewise, you can use `SEQ_FOO.NEXTVAL` to query the next value of the `SEQ_FOO` sequence. 

`CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL` values of a sequence can be used in:

* The select list of a `SELECT` statement. 

* The `VALUES` clause of an `INSERT` statement. 

* The `SET` clause of an `UPDATE` statement. 

Example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT SEQUENCE_NAME.NEXTVAL FROM DUAL;      /*The sequence number increases for each execution.*/

obclient> SELECT SEQUENCE_NAME.CURRVAL FROM DUAL;     /*The sequence number remains unchanged for each execution.*/
```

The first reference to `NEXTVAL` returns the start value of the sequence. Subsequent references to `NEXTVAL` increment the sequence value by the defined step size and return a new value. Any reference to `CURRVAL` always returns the current value of the sequence, which is the value returned by the last reference to `NEXTVAL`. 

Before you refer to `CURRVAL` of a sequence in the session, you must use `NEXTVAL` to initialize the sequence values first. 

When you create a sequence, you can define its start value and the step size between its values. The first reference to `NEXTVAL` returns the start value of the sequence. Subsequent references to `NEXTVAL` increment the sequence value by the defined step size and return a new value. Any reference to `CURRVAL` always returns the current value of the sequence, which is the value returned by the last reference to `NEXTVAL`. 

## References

For more information about operations on a sequence, see the following topics:

* [Create a sequence](1.create-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Query sequences](2.view-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Modify a sequence](4.modify-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Drop a sequence](5.delete-a-squence-of-mysql-mode.md)
