# Overview

This feature prevents unauthorized users from accessing database data based on privilege management and functional design. In terms of privilege management, OceanBase Database allows you to set different authentication strategies for users or roles to protect account security. Different users or roles have different responsibilities. Therefore, OceanBase Database provides different privilege and role strategies for user operations in Oracle mode and MySQL mode. You can grant different privileges and roles to users and manage them based on your business needs. In terms of functional design, OceanBase Database allows you to set whitelists and label security strategies to ensure secure access to the database.

## Privilege management

OceanBase Database provides different privilege and role strategies for user operations in Oracle mode and MySQL mode.

For more information, see the following topics:

* [Overview](2.user-and-permission/1.user-and-permission-overview.md)

* [Privilege types in MySQL mode](2.user-and-permission/2.permission-of-mysql-mode/1.permission-classification-of-mysql.md)

* [Privilege types in Oracle mode](2.user-and-permission/3.permission-of-oracle-mode/1.permission-classification-of-oracle-mode.md)

## Network security access control

OceanBase Database allows you to implement network access control based on whitelist strategies. You can use the tenant whitelist feature to allow only specific clients to access a tenant.

For more information about how to set a whitelist, see [Network security access control](3.network-security-access-control.md).

## Row-level access control

OceanBase Database is compatible with the label security feature of Oracle databases. You can configure row-level access control to ensure the security of data reads and writes.

For more information about how to set a label security strategy, see [Row-level access control](4.row-level-access-control.md).

<main id="notice">
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>OceanBase Database supports the label security feature only in Oracle mode. </p>
</main>
