# Network security access control

OceanBase Database provides a whitelist policy to implement network security access control. You can use the tenant whitelist feature to set which clients are allowed to access the current tenant.

The tenant whitelist is controlled through the system variable `ob_tcp_invited_nodes`, which is a global whitelist parameter for the tenant. The default value is `127.0.0.1,::1`, which means that only the local IP address is allowed to connect to the tenant. This variable supports a list of values separated by commas, for example: `A,B,C,D`. When a user logs in to an OBServer node, the OBServer node will verify the user's IP address against the values A, B, C, and D. If the user's IP address matches none of them, the access is denied. If it matches any of them, the user is granted access through the whitelist. 

You can specify the values in the following formats:

* Regular IP addresses, for example: `192.168.1.1`. Access is allowed when an exact match occurs, namely, the IP address of the client is identical to the specified value. 
* IP addresses that contain a percent sign (%) or underscores (_), for example: `192.168.1.%` or `192.168.1._`. Access is allowed when a fuzzy match occurs, which is similar to the LIKE operator. 
* IP addresses that contain a network mask, for example: `192.168.1.0/24` or `192.168.1.0/255.255.255.0`. Access is allowed when a mask match occurs, namely, the Client_IP & NetMask equals the specified value. 

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note:</h4>
   <p>Modifying the tenant whitelist will not affect existing sessions.</p>
</main>

## View and set a tenant whitelist

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of a cluster using the root user. 

   ```shell
   obclient -uroot@sys -P2881 -h10.xxx.xxx.1 -p***1***
   ```

2. Execute the following statement to view the tenant whitelist: 

   ```shell
   obclient> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'ob_tcp_invited_nodes';
   +----------------------+-------+
   | Variable_name        | Value |
   +----------------------+-------+
   | ob_tcp_invited_nodes | %     |
   +----------------------+-------+
   ```

   where `%` indicates that any client IP is allowed to connect to the tenant. 

3. To modify the tenant whitelist, execute the following statement: 

   Example:

   ```shell
   obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_tcp_invited_nodes='%';
   
   obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_tcp_invited_nodes='10.10.10.%';
   ```
