|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Overview

This topic describes the compatibility between OceanBase Database's Oracle mode and native Oracle Database.

OceanBase Database is compatible with Oracle Database in terms of basic features, including the data types, SQL features, and database objects. OceanBase Database is compatible with most PL-related R&D features of Oracle Database. In terms of advanced features such as database security, backup and restore, high availability, and optimizer, OceanBase Database provides sound compatibility with and even outperforms Oracle Database. Therefore, you can smoothly migrate data and services from Oracle Database to OceanBase Database without spending much time learning everything about OceanBase Database.

However, due to the differences in the underlying architecture and product form between the two, OceanBase Database does not support some features of Oracle Database and differs from it in some aspects. This topic describes the compatibility between OceanBase Database and Oracle Database in the following aspects:

* SQL data types

* Built-in functions

* SQL syntax

* PL features

* System views

* Character sets

* Collations

* Database object management

* Security features

* Backup and restore

* SQL engine

## SQL data types

OceanBase Database is compatible with most of the data types supported in Oracle Database. For more information, see [SQL data types](../400.compatibility-with-oracle/200.sql-data-type.md).

However, for optimization reasons, the `LONG` and `LONG RAW` data types are considered too outdated, and OceanBase Database currently has no plans to support these two data types.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>OceanBase Database supports large object (LOB) data types sized no more than 48 MB. Due to the poor performance of LOB data types, we recommend that you do not use them in complex scenarios. For more information, see <a href="../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/300.basic-elements-of-oracle-mode/100.built-in-data-types-of-oracle-mode/600.large-object-data-type-of-oracle-mode/100.data-types-of-large-objects-of-oracle-mode.md">Overview of LOB data types</a>. </p>
</main>

## Built-in functions

OceanBase Database is compatible with most of the built-in functions supported in Oracle Database. For more information, see [Built-in functions](../400.compatibility-with-oracle/300.built-in-functions.md).

## SQL syntax

OceanBase Database supports most of the SQL syntax in Oracle Database. For some unsupported SQL syntaxes, OceanBase Database will return an "unsupported syntax" error to indicate that the corresponding features are unavailable.

:::tab
tab Supported

**SELECT**

* OceanBase Database supports most query features, including single- and multi-table queries, subqueries, inner-join, semi-join, outer-join, grouping, aggregation, hierarchical queries, and regular data mining functions such as probability and linear regression.

* The following set operators are supported: `UNION`, `UNION ALL`, `INTERSECT`, and `MINUS`.

* The `EXPLAIN` statement is supported for viewing execution plans.

**INSERT**

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-row inserts. It also supports inserting data into a specified partition.

* OceanBase Database supports the `INSERT INTO ... SELECT ...` statement.

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-table inserts.

**UPDATE**

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-column updates.

* OceanBase Database supports updates by using subqueries.

* OceanBase Database supports set updates.

**DELETE**

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-table deletion.

**TRUNCATE**

* OceanBase Database allows you to truncate a specified table.

**Parallel query**

* OceanBase Database supports parallel queries similar to those in Oracle Database.

   OceanBase Database supports the auto degree of parallelism (DOP) feature. You can also manually specify the DOP by using hints or session variables.

* OceanBase Database supports parallel DML statements.

**Hints**

OceanBase Database supports hints. For more information about hints, see [Hints](../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/300.basic-elements-of-oracle-mode/600.annotation-of-oracle-mode/400.hint-of-oracle-mode/100.hint-overview-of-oracle-mode.md).

:::

**Materialized views**

* OceanBase Database supports the `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` statement for creating a materialized view.
* OceanBase Database supports the `DROP MATERIALIZED VIEW` statement for dropping a materialized view.

**Materialized view logs**

* OceanBase Database supports the `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW LOG` statement for creating a materialized view log.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The default behavior of <code>with_clause</code> (where you can specify <code>PRIMARY KEY</code>, <code>ROWID</code>, and <code>SEQUENCE</code>) in the <code>CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW LOG</code> statement in OceanBase Database is incompatible with those in Oracle Database. </p>
  </main>

* OceanBase Database supports the `DROP MATERIALIZED VIEW LOG` statement for dropping a materialized view log.

tab Not supported

**Materialized views**

* OceanBase Database does not support the `ON COMMIT` or `ON STATMENT` refresh mode in the syntax of the `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` statement.
* OceanBase Database does not support the `PRESERVE TABLE` clause in the syntax of the `DROP MATERIALIZED VIEW` statement.

**Materialized view logs**

* In the syntax of the `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW LOG` statement:

   * OceanBase Database does not support the `ASYNCHRONOUS` clause for asynchronous purging.
   * OceanBase Database returns an error when the `EXCLUDING NEW VALUES` clause is used.
   * OceanBase Database does not support partitions.

:::

## PL features

OceanBase Database is compatible with most PL features of Oracle Database. For more information about PL features, see [PL reference](../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/300.pl-reference/100.what-is-pl/100.pl-introduction.md).

:::tab
tab Supported

OceanBase Database supports the following PL features of Oracle Database:

* Data types

* Process control

* Sets and records (multi-dimensional sets are not supported)

* Static SQL statements

* Dynamic SQL statements

* Subprocedures

* Triggers

* Exception handling

* Packages

* Performance optimization

* Custom data types

* PL packages, including `DBMS_CRYPTO`, `DBMS_DEBUG`, `DBMS_LOB`, `DBMS_LOCK`, `DBMS_METADATA`, `DBMS_OUTPUT`, `DBMS_RANDOM`, `DBMS_SQL`, `DBMS_XA`, `UTL_I18N`, and `UTL_RAW`

* PL tag security packages, including `SA_SYSDBA`, `SA_COMPONENTS`, `SA_LABEL_ADMIN`, `SA_POLICY_ADMIN`, `SA_USER_ADMIN`, and `SA_SESSION`

In the implementation of `NOCOPY` for a parameter, compatibility between OceanBase Database and Oracle Database varies as follows:

* If the parameter is of a basic data type or the parameter has the OUT attribute and is of a complex data type, OceanBase Database is incompatible with the pass-by-reference behavior in Oracle Database.

* If the parameter has the IN OUT attribute and is of a complex data type, OceanBase Database is compatible with the pass-by-reference behavior in Oracle Database.

tab Not supported

OceanBase Database does not support the following PL feature of Oracle Database:

* Conditional compilation

:::

## System views

OceanBase Database is compatible with some system views of Oracle Database. For a detailed list of compatible views, see [System views](../400.compatibility-with-oracle/400.system-view.md). For more information about columns in system views, see [Overview of system views](../../700.reference/700.system-views/200.system-view-overview.md).

## Character sets

The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database supports the following character sets:

* binary
* utf8mb4
* gbk
* utf16
* gb18030
* latin1
* gb18030_2022

## Collations

The following table lists the collations supported by the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

| Collations | Character set | Description |
|--------------------|---------|-----------------------------------------------|
| utf8mb4_general_ci | utf8mb4 | A general collation.  |
| utf8mb4_bin | utf8mb4 | A binary collation.  |
| utf8mb4_unicode_ci | utf8mb4 | A collation that is based on Unicode Collation Algorithm (UCA).  |
| binary | binary | A binary collation.  |
| gbk_chinese_ci | gbk | A collation for Chinese.  |
| gbk_bin | gbk | A binary collation.  |
| utf16_general_ci | utf16 | A general collation.  |
| utf16_bin | utf16 | A binary collation.  |
| utf16_unicode_ci | utf16 | A collation that is based on UCA.  |
| gb18030_chinese_ci | gb18030 | A collation for Chinese.  |
| gb18030_bin | gb18030 | A binary collation.  |
| latin1_bin | latin1 | A binary collation.  |
| gb18030_2022_bin | gb18030_2022 | A binary collation. This is the default collation for this character set in Oracle mode.  |
| gb18030_2022_chinese_ci | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by Pinyin. The collation is case-insensitive.  |
| gb18030_2022_chinese_cs | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by Pinyin. The collation is case-sensitive.  |
| gb18030_2022_radical_ci | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by radicals. The collation is case-insensitive.  |
| gb18030_2022_radical_cs | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by radicals. The collation is case-sensitive.  |
| gb18030_2022_stroke_ci | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by strokes. The collation is case-insensitive.  |
| gb18030_2022_stroke_cs | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by strokes. The collation is case-sensitive.  |

## Database object management

:::tab
tab Supported

**Table management**

* Create tables: OceanBase Database allows you to create tables and specify partitions and constraints when you create a table. For more information about the syntax for creating tables, see [CREATE TABLE](../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/2400.create-table-of-oracle-mode.md).

* Modify base tables: OceanBase Database allows you to use the `ALTER TABLE` statement to add, drop, or modify columns, add or drop constraints, and add, drop, or modify partitions. For more information about the syntax for modifying tables, see [ALTER TABLE](../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/1000.alter-table-of-oracle-mode.md).

* Drop base tables: OceanBase Database allows to you drop tables and the constraints on the tables. For more information about the syntax for dropping tables, see [DROP TABLE](../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/3900.drop-table-of-oracle-mode.md).

**Constraints**

* OceanBase Database supports the `CHECK`, `UNIQUE`, and `NOT NULL` constraints.

* OceanBase Database supports the `PRIMARY KEY` constraint.

* OceanBase Database supports the `FOREIGN KEY` constraint.

* OceanBase Database allows you to add `CHECK`, `PRIMARY KEY`, `FOREIGN KEY`, and `NOT NULL` constraints by executing the `ALTER TABLE` statement.

* The `SET NULL` constraint is supported for cascaded tables.

**Partition support**

* OceanBase Database supports partitioning, template-based subpartitioning, and non-template-based subpartitioning.

* OceanBase Database supports HASH, RANGE, LIST, and composite partitioning.

* OceanBase Database supports local and global indexes.

* For partition maintenance, note that:

   * You can add, drop, and truncate partitions for partitioned tables.

   * You can add and drop partitions for template-based subpartitioned tables, and add, drop, and truncate partitions and subpartitions for non-template-based subpartitioned tables.

For more information about partitions, see [Partition overview](../../700.reference/300.database-object-management/200.manage-object-of-oracle-mode/200.manage-partitions-of-oracle-mode/100.partition-overview-of-oracle-mode.md).

**Index management**

* Only B-tree is supported.

* OceanBase Database allows you to create and delete indexes.

**View management**

* OceanBase Database allows you to create simple and complex views.

* OceanBase Database allows you to delete views.

* OceanBase Database supports the `SELECT` statement.

* OceanBase Database supports DML statements.

**Sequence management**

* OceanBase Database allows you to create sequences.

* OceanBase Database allows you to modify sequences. For example, you can reset sequences.

* OceanBase Database allows you to delete sequences.

**Synonyms**

* OceanBase Database allows you to create synonyms for objects such as tables, views, synonyms, and sequences.

* OceanBase Database allows you to create public synonyms.

**Trigger management**

* OceanBase Database allows you to create triggers.

* OceanBase Database allows you to modify triggers.

* OceanBase Database allows you to delete triggers.

**DBLinks**

* OceanBase Database supports read and write operations on an OceanBase database by using a DBLink.

* OceanBase Database supports read and write operations on an Oracle database by using a DBLink.

tab Not supported

**Constraints**

* `DISABLE` operations are not supported for the `UNIQUE` constraint.

**Partition support**

* OceanBase Database does not support the adding or dropping of subpartitions for template-based subpartitioned tables.

**Index management**

* Index types such as bitmaps and reverse indexes are not supported.

**Updatable views**

The `WITH CHECK OPTION` clause is not supported.

:::

## Security features

OceanBase Database implements a wide range of security features.

:::tab
tab Supported

**Privilege management**

* OceanBase Database is compatible with most system privileges in Oracle Database. For more information about the privileges supported by the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, see [Privilege types in Oracle mode](../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/300.permission-of-oracle-mode/000.permission-classification-of-oracle-mode.md).

* OceanBase Database supports regular object privilege management operations such as privilege granting and revocation.

* OceanBase Database supports allowlist strategies for secure network access control.

* OceanBase Database supports predefined system roles and custom roles.

**Identity authentication**

* The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database is compatible with the password strategies of Oracle Database.

* User locking and unlocking are supported.

**Transparent data encryption**

OceanBase Database is compatible with the transparent data encryption (TDE) feature of Oracle Database. Data is automatically encrypted before it is written to storage devices and automatically decrypted when it is read.

**Auditing**

* OceanBase Database supports the standard auditing feature of Oracle Database.

* OceanBase Database supports statement auditing and object auditing.

* Object auditing supports only tables, sequences, functions, and packages.

* Auditing results can be stored in files or internal tables.

* OceanBase Database provides various audit-related system views.

**Label security**

* OceanBase Database is compatible with the label security feature of Oracle Database.

* Among the components of Oracle Label Security, OceanBase Database supports levels.

**SSL-based transmission link encryption**

* OceanBase Database offers the ability to encrypt data transmission both between clients and OBServer nodes and between OBServer nodes themselves.

* OceanBase Database supports one-way Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) authentication, two-way X509 authentication, as well as additional special two-way authentication mechanisms, such as specifying the encryption algorithm, issuer, and SSL subject for authentication.

tab Not supported

**Auditing**

* OceanBase Database does not support the unified auditing and fine-grained auditing (FGA) features.

* OceanBase Database does not support privilege auditing or network auditing.

* Audit data cannot be deleted.

**Label security**

* OceanBase Database does not support compartments or groups of Oracle Label Security.

:::

## Backup and restore

OceanBase Database also supports backup and restore features. For more information about the physical backup and restore features of OceanBase Database, see [Overview of Backup and Restore](../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/1000.high-data-reliability-and-availability/500.backup-and-recovery/100.backup-and-recovery-overview.md).

:::tab
tab Supported

* Network File System (NFS), Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS), and Tencent Cloud Object Storage (COS) can be used as backup destinations.

* Automatic cleanup of expired backup data is supported.

* Backup and restore at the tenant level are supported.

* Table-level backup id supported.

tab Not supported

* Backup and restore at the cluster level are not supported.

* Table-level backup is not supported.

* Compression of log archives is not supported.

* Backup to a specified path is not supported.

* Manual cleanup of backup data is not supported.

* Secondary backup is not supported.

* Verification of backup data is not supported.

:::

## SQL engine

The SQL engine of OceanBase Database is compatible with most features of Oracle Database. For more information about the SQL engine of OceanBase Database, see [SQL tuning](../../700.reference/1000.performance-tuning-guide/500.sql-optimization/100.sql-request-execution-process.md).

:::tab
tab Supported

* Query rewriting is supported.

* Precompiled statements are supported.

* The cost-based optimizer is supported.

* Execution plan generation and display by using the `EXPLAIN` statement are supported.

* The plan cache is supported.

* Fast parameterization of execution plans is supported.

* Execution plan binding is supported.

* Optimizer hints are supported.

* Adaptive cursor sharing (ACS) is supported.

* SQL plan management (SPM) is supported.

tab Not supported

* The estimator is not supported.

* Execution plan isolation is not supported.

* Expression statistics store (ESS) is not supported.

* Approximate query processing (AQP) is not supported.

:::
