|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

OceanBase Database is available in two editions: OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition and OceanBase Database Community Edition.

* OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition is an enterprise-level native distributed database independently developed by the OceanBase team. It is designed to provide financial-grade high availability on commodity hardware. It creates a new city-level disaster recovery standard known as "Five IDCs across Three Regions". OceanBase Database is the world's first distributed database to pass the TPC-C benchmark test, which can support over 1,500 nodes in a single cluster. It features cloud-native architecture, strong consistency, and high compatibility with Oracle and MySQL.

* OceanBase Database Community Edition is a standalone distributed and integrated database compatible with MySQL. It is built on the native distributed architecture and supports enterprise-level features such as financial-grade high availability, transparent horizontal scaling, distributed transactions, multitenancy, and syntax compatibility. OceanBase Database Community Edition has an open-source kernel and provides open APIs and various eco-capabilities to meet the business requirements of enterprises or individuals.

This topic describes the deployment methods and scenarios of the two editions of OceanBase Database.

## Deployment methods

**OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition**

* Use OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) to deploy an OceanBase cluster
* Use OceanBase Deployer (OBD) to deploy an OceanBase cluster
* Use the CLI to deploy an OceanBase cluster

**OceanBase Database Community Edition**

* Use OBD to deploy an OceanBase cluster
* Use OCP to deploy an OceanBase cluster
* Use the Docker image to deploy an OceanBase cluster
* Use ob-operator to deploy an OceanBase cluster in a Kubernetes environment

## Deployment scenarios

**OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition**

* For a production environment, we recommend that you deploy an OceanBase cluster by using OCP. For more information, see [Deploy a three-replica OceanBase cluster by using OCP](300.deploy-oceanbase-enterprise-edition/300.deploy-through-a-graphical-interface/300.deploy-oceanbase-cluster-use-ocp/500.deploy-three-oceanbase-replica-clusters-use-ocp.md).

* For a non-production environment, you can use the CLI to deploy an OceanBase cluster. For more information, see [Deploy a three-replica OceanBase cluster by using the CLI](300.deploy-oceanbase-enterprise-edition/400.deploy-through-the-command-line/200.deploy-the-oceanbase-cluster-command-line/400.deploy-three-oceanbase-replica-clusters.md).

* For quick starts in a non-production environment, you can use OBD to deploy an OceanBase cluster. For more information, see **Solution 1: Deploy OceanBase Database in a demo environment** or **Solution 2: Deploy an OceanBase cluster** in [Get started with OceanBase Database](../200.quickstart/100.quickly-experience-oceanbase-for-community.md).

**OceanBase Database Community Edition**

* If you want to get started quickly with OceanBase Database in a non-natively supported operating system such as macOS and Windows, we recommend that you deploy OceanBase Database by using the Docker image. For more information, see **Solution 3: Deploy OceanBase Database in a container** in [Get started with OceanBase Database](../200.quickstart/100.quickly-experience-oceanbase-for-community.md).

* If you want to get started quickly with OceanBase Database in a natively supported operating system such as Linux, we recommend that you deploy OceanBase Database by using OBD. For more information, see **Solution 1: Deploy OceanBase Database in a demo environment** or **Solution 2: Deploy an OceanBase cluster** in [Get started with OceanBase Database](../200.quickstart/100.quickly-experience-oceanbase-for-community.md).

* In an offline environment, we recommend that you use OBD for standard deployment. For more information, see [Deploy an OceanBase cluster on the GUI of OBD](500.deploy-oceanbase-database-community-edition/200.local-deployment/400.deploy-by-ui/100.deploy-by-obd.md).

* In a Kubernetes environment, we recommend that you use ob-operator for deployment. For more information, see [Deploy OceanBase Database in a Kubernetes cluster](500.deploy-oceanbase-database-community-edition/300.deploy-in-the-k8s-cluster.md).

## References

* For more information about the deployment process of OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition, see [Deployment process](300.deploy-oceanbase-enterprise-edition/100.deployment-process.md).
* For more information about the deployment process of OceanBase Database Community Edition, see [Deploy OceanBase Database Community Edition](500.deploy-oceanbase-database-community-edition/100.deployment-overview.md).
* For information about OBD, see [What is OBD](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-obd-en-10000000000904953).