|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Initiate a full data backup job

This topic describes how to initiate a data backup job after you initiate a log archiving job.

## Prerequisites

Before you initiate a full data backup job, make sure that you have enabled the log archiving (`ARCHIVELOG`) mode. You can initiate a data backup job only when `STATUS` of the log archiving job is `DOING`.

   For more information about how to view the status of a log archiving job, see [View the archiving progress](../300.log-archive/600.view-log-archive-progress.md).

   For more information about how to enable `ARCHIVELOG`, see [Enable ARCHIVELOG](../300.log-archive/300.open-the-log-archive-mode.md).

## (Optional) Preparations

Before you initiate a data backup job, you can set a password for the backup set.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. (Optional) Run the following command to set a backup password:

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>This password is the password of the backup set after the backup job is completed. When this parameter is set, you must enter this password to restore data by using this backup set. This password cannot be deleted. </p>
   </main>

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET ENCRYPTION ON IDENTIFIED BY 'password' ONLY;
   ```

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> SET ENCRYPTION ON IDENTIFIED BY '******' ONLY;
   ```

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>After you set a backup password, you can disconnect the session and reconnect to the database to cancel the setting before a data backup job is initiated. </p>
   </main>

## Procedure

After you complete the preparations, you can perform the following steps to initiate a full data backup job.

Assume that the current cluster contains three tenants: `sys`, `mysql_tenant`, and `oracle_tenant`, and that backup preparations have been completed for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants.

### Initiate a full data backup job from the sys tenant

You can initiate a full data backup job for all tenants or a specified tenant in the cluster from the `sys` tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. (Optional) Set the backup concurrency for the tenant.

   You can configure the backup concurrency by setting the tenant-level parameter `ha_low_thread_score`, which specifies the weight of worker threads for job queues with a low or medium priority, such as backup job queues and backup cleanup job queues. The value range is [0, 100]. The default value is `0`. Before you start the backup job, you can increase the value of `ha_low_thread_score`. We recommend that you double the value each time. For more information about the operations related to the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [View data backup parameter settings](700.parameters-of-data-backup.md).

   For more information about the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [ha_low_thread_score](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4100.ha_high_thread_score.md).

   * Set the backup concurrency for all tenants in the cluster

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 10 TENANT = all_user;
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 10 TENANT = all;
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all user tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>
      </main>

   * Set the backup concurrency for a specified tenant in the cluster

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 10 TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

3. Execute the following statement to initiate a full data backup job:

   * Initiate a full data backup job for all tenants in the cluster

      You can initiate a full data backup job for all tenants in the cluster.

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP DATABASE [PLUS ARCHIVELOG];
      ```

     Here, `PLUS ARCHIVELOG` is optional. If you specify `PLUS ARCHIVELOG`, the archive logs are also backed up during data backup, and a data set with archive logs will be generated in the data backup directory. You can use this dataset to restore the tenant data to the SCN specified by `MIN_RESTORE_SCN`. In addition, if you use OceanBase Database Community Edition or OceanBase Database's standalone mode, you can use this dataset to create a standby tenant. For more information, see [Create a standby tenant by using the BACKUP DATABASE PLUS ARCHIVELOG feature](../../400.high-availability/300.physical-standby-database-disaster-recovery/200.create-a-standby-tenant/400.create-a-standby-tenant-by-backup-database-plus-archivelog.md).

      To initiate a full data backup job for all tenants in the cluster, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP DATABASE;
      ```

      In this example, the system initiates a full data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants in the cluster.

   * Initiate a full data backup job for a specified tenant in the cluster

      You can initiate a full data backup job for a specified tenant without affecting other tenants in the cluster.

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP [PLUS ARCHIVELOG] TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      To initiate a full data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>If you specify multiple tenants, separate the tenant names with commas (,). </p>
      </main>

      After the statement is executed, the system initiates a full data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` tenant.

   You can view the backup progress in real time. For more information, see [View the data backup progress](../400.data-backup/500.view-data-backup-progress.md).

### Initiate a full data backup job for a user tenant

You can initiate a full data backup job for a user tenant without affecting other tenants.

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

   In this example, you can log on to the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `root` user, or to the `oracle_tenant` tenant as the `SYS` user.

2. (Optional) Set the backup concurrency.

   You can configure the backup concurrency by setting the tenant-level parameter `ha_low_thread_score`, which specifies the weight of worker threads for job queues with a low or medium priority, such as backup job queues and backup cleanup job queues. The value range is [0, 100]. The default value is `0`. Before you start the backup job, you can increase the value of `ha_low_thread_score`. We recommend that you double the value each time. For more information about the operations related to the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [View data backup parameter settings](700.parameters-of-data-backup.md).

   For more information about the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [ha_low_thread_score](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4300.ha_low_thread_score.md).

   ```sql
   obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 10;
   ```

3. Execute the following statement to initiate a full data backup job:



   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP DATABASE [PLUS ARCHIVELOG];
   ```

  Here, `PLUS ARCHIVELOG` is optional. If you specify `PLUS ARCHIVELOG`, the archive logs are also backed up during data backup, and a data set with archive logs will be generated in the data backup directory. You can use this dataset to restore the tenant data to the SCN specified by `MIN_RESTORE_SCN`. In addition, if you use OceanBase Database Community Edition or OceanBase Database in standalone mode, you can use this dataset to create a standby tenant. For more information, see [Create a standby tenant by using the BACKUP DATABASE PLUS ARCHIVELOG feature](../../400.high-availability/300.physical-standby-database-disaster-recovery/200.create-a-standby-tenant/400.create-a-standby-tenant-by-backup-database-plus-archivelog.md).

   To initiate a full data backup job for the current tenant, execute the following statement:

   ```sql
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP DATABASE;
   ```

   After the statement is executed, the system initiates a full data backup job for the current tenant.

   You can view the backup progress in real time. For more information, see [View the data backup progress](../400.data-backup/500.view-data-backup-progress.md).

## References

* [View the data backup progress](../400.data-backup/500.view-data-backup-progress.md)

* [View the data backup history](../400.data-backup/600.view-data-backup-history.md)