|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Initiate an incremental data backup job

An incremental data backup job backs up all macroblocks modified since the last full backup or incremental data backup. For example, when the system initiates an incremental data backup job for a tenant, if a full backup was performed in the last data backup job and a full backup file named `full_backup_set` was generated, the system will back up all macroblocks modified since the generation of `full_backup_set`, and if an incremental backup was performed in the last data backup job and an incremental backup file named `inc_backup_set` was generated, the system will back up all macroblocks modified since the generation of `inc_backup_set`.

## Considerations

* To perform an incremental data backup, make sure that a full data backup exists. If an incremental backup is initiated without a full data backup, the system will automatically convert the incremental backup to a full backup.

* For scenarios where a cluster of a low version is upgraded to a high version, even if the current tenant has performed a full backup in the low version, when upgrading to the high version, if an incremental backup is directly initiated, the system will automatically convert the incremental backup to a full backup.

## Procedure

After you complete the preparations, you can perform the following steps to initiate an incremental data backup job.

Assume that the current cluster contains three tenants: `sys`, `mysql_tenant`, and `oracle_tenant`.

### Initiate an incremental data backup job from the sys tenant

You can initiate an incremental data backup job for all tenants or a specified tenant in the cluster from the `sys` tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. (Optional) Set the backup concurrency for the tenant.

   You can configure the backup concurrency by setting the tenant-level parameter `ha_low_thread_score`, which specifies the weight of worker threads for job queues with a low or medium priority, such as backup job queues and backup cleanup job queues. The value range is [0, 100]. The default value is `0`. Before you start the backup job, you can increase the value of `ha_low_thread_score`. We recommend that you double the value each time. For more information about the operations related to the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [View data backup parameter settings](700.parameters-of-data-backup.md).

   For more information about the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [ha_low_thread_score](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4300.ha_low_thread_score.md).

   * Set the backup concurrency for all tenants in the cluster

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 10 TENANT = all_user;
      ```

      or

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 10 TENANT = all;
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>In OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, <code>TENANT = all_user</code> and <code>TENANT = all</code> express the same semantics. If you want an operation to take effect on all user tenants, we recommend that you use <code>TENANT = all_user</code>. <code>TENANT = all</code> will be deprecated. </p>
      </main>

   * Set the backup concurrency for a specified tenant in the cluster

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 10 TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

3. Execute the following statement to initiate an incremental data backup job.

   * Initiate an incremental data backup job for all tenants in the cluster.

      Execute the following statement to initiate an incremental data backup job for all tenants in the cluster:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP INCREMENTAL DATABASE;
      ```

      After the statement is executed, the system initiates an incremental data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants in the cluster.

   * Initiate an incremental data backup job for a specified tenant in the cluster.

      You can initiate an incremental data backup job for a specified tenant without affecting other tenants in the cluster.

      To initiate an incremental data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` tenant, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP INCREMENTAL TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
         <h4>Note</h4>
         <p>If you specify multiple tenants, separate the tenant names with commas (,). </p>
      </main>

      After the statement is executed, the system initiates an incremental data backup job for the `mysql_tenant` tenant.

   You can view the backup progress in real time. For more information, see [View the data backup progress](../400.data-backup/500.view-data-backup-progress.md).

### Initiate an incremental data backup job for a user tenant

You can initiate an incremental data backup job for a user tenant without affecting other tenants.

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

   In this example, you can log on to the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `root` user, or to the `oracle_tenant` tenant as the `SYS` user.

2. (Optional) Set the backup concurrency.

   You can configure the backup concurrency by setting the tenant-level parameter `ha_low_thread_score`, which specifies the weight of worker threads for job queues with a low or medium priority, such as backup job queues and backup cleanup job queues. The value range is [0, 100]. The default value is `0`. Before you start the backup job, you can increase the value of `ha_low_thread_score`. We recommend that you double the value each time. For more information about the operations related to the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [View data backup parameter settings](700.parameters-of-data-backup.md).

   For more information about the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [ha_low_thread_score](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4300.ha_low_thread_score.md).

   ```sql
   obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 10;
   ```

3. Execute the following statement to initiate an incremental data backup job:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM BACKUP INCREMENTAL DATABASE;
   ```

   After the statement is executed, the system initiates an incremental data backup job for the current tenant.

   You can view the backup progress in real time. For more information, see [View the data backup progress](../400.data-backup/500.view-data-backup-progress.md).

## References

* [View the data backup progress](../400.data-backup/500.view-data-backup-progress.md)

* [View the data backup history](../400.data-backup/600.view-data-backup-history.md)
