# Stop a backup job

You can stop an ongoing backup job. If automatic backup cleanup is enabled, the backup cleanup job immediately clears incomplete backup data after you stop a backup job.

## Prerequisites

Incomplete backup data is generated after you stop an ongoing back job. We recommend that you enable automatic backup cleanup before you perform backup so that incomplete backup data can be cleared as soon as possible without occupying resources. For more information about how to enable automatic backup cleanup, see [Automatic cleanup of expired backup data](../500.clear-backup-data/100.cleaning-up-backed-up-data-automatically.md).

## Background information

Assume that the current cluster contains three tenants: `sys`, `mysql_tenant`, and `oracle_tenant`, and that data backup is being performed for `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant`.

## Stop data backup from the sys tenant

You can stop data backup for all tenants or a specified tenant in the cluster from the `sys` tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to stop a data backup job:

   * Stop data backup for all tenants in the cluster.

      Execute the following statement to stop the data backup jobs of all tenants in the cluster:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM CANCEL BACKUP;
      ```

   * Stop data backup for a specified tenant in the cluster.

      Execute the following statement to stop an ongoing data backup job of a specified tenant without affecting other tenants in the cluster:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM CANCEL BACKUP TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

        <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note</h4>
        <p>If you specify multiple tenants, separate the tenant names with commas (,). </p>
        </main>

## Stop a backup job of a user tenant

You can stop an ongoing data backup job of a user tenant without affecting other tenants.

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

   In this example, you can log on to the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `root` user, or log on to the `oracle_tenant` tenant as the `SYS` user.

2. Execute the following statement to stop a data backup job:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM CANCEL BACKUP;
   ```

## References

* [View the data backup progress](../400.data-backup/500.view-data-backup-progress.md)

* [View the data backup history](../400.data-backup/600.view-data-backup-history.md)
