|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# View data backup parameter settings

After you run a backup job, you can query the settings of backup parameters.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute specific statements to query the settings of backup parameters.

   * View the current number of worker threads for high-availability low-priority jobs such as backup jobs and backup cleanup jobs.

      Here is an example:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE '%ha_low_thread_score%'\G
      ```

      The result is as follows:

      ```shell
      *************************** 1. row ***************************
               zone: zone1
           svr_type: observer
             svr_ip: 172.xx.xxx.xxx
           svr_port: 2882
               name: ha_low_thread_score
          data_type: NULL
              value: 0
               info: the current work thread score of high availability low thread. Range: [0,100] in integer. Especially, 0 means default value
            section: OBSERVER
              scope: TENANT
             source: DEFAULT
         edit_level: DYNAMIC_EFFECTIVE
      default_value: 0
          isdefault: 1
      1 row in set
      ```

      The `ha_low_thread_score` parameter specifies the current number of worker threads for high-availability low-priority jobs such as backup and backup cleanup jobs. The default value is `0`. If a data backup job runs slowly, you can increase the value of the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter. We recommend that you double the value each time. For more information about the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter, see [ha_low_thread_score](../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/4100.ha_high_thread_score.md).

      To set the concurrency for writing data to the file system during backup, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]>  ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score = 4 TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

      In this example, the `ha_low_thread_score` parameter is set to `4`, which indicates that the number of worker threads for backup jobs in the `mysql_tenant` tenant is `4`.

   * View the backup paths of tenants.

      In the `sys` tenant, you can query the `oceanbase.CDB_OB_BACKUP_PARAMETER` view to obtain information about backup paths of all tenants in the current cluster. You can query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_BACKUP_PARAMETER` view in a MySQL tenant or the `SYS.DBA_OB_BACKUP_PARAMETER` view in an Oracle tenant to obtain information about the backup path of the current tenant.

      ```sql
      obclient [(none)]> SELECT * FROM oceanbase.CDB_OB_BACKUP_PARAMETER\G
      ```

      A sample query result is as follows:

      ```shell
      *************************** 1. row ***************************
      TENANT_ID: 1004
          NAME: data_backup_dest
          VALUE: oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx&delete_mode=delete
      1 row in set
      ```

      In this example, the data backup path (`data_backup_dest`) of the tenant whose `TENANT_ID` value is `1004` is `oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx`, and the backup file cleanup mode (`delete_mode`) of the tenant is `delete`. `delete_mode` can be set to either of the following values:

      * `delete`: specifies that backup files that meet the specified requirements are directly cleaned up.

         After you configure this mode, the system directly deletes the backup files that meet the specified requirements during backup file cleanup.

      * `tagging`: specifies that backup files that meet the cleanup requirements are tagged and retained.

         After you configure this mode, the system tags backup files that meet the cleanup requirements. The key of the tag is set to `delete_mode` and the value is set to `tagging`. This way, you can manage the lifecycle of these files on Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS) or Tencent Cloud Object Storage (COS) based on the specified tags.


