# Overview

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) runs in a Docker container. OCP and OceanBase Database have the same requirements on the server architecture and Linux OS.

## About OCP

OCP is an enterprise-level database management platform for OceanBase Database. You can install, upgrade, scale up, and uninstall OceanBase clusters, create and manage maintenance tasks, monitor the cluster running status, and view alerts in OCP with a few clicks.

OCP provides full-lifecycle management of components such as OceanBase clusters and tenants, and manages OceanBase resources such as hosts, networks, and software packages. It enables you to manage OceanBase clusters more efficiently and reduce the IT O&M costs for enterprises.

OCP can be deployed in single-node, three-node, or multi-zone mode.

## Single-node deployment

This deployment mode provides all OCP capabilities through a single node. In this mode, the load balancing mode is `none`.

## Three-node deployment

You can deploy OCP in three-node mode to achieve high availability.

In this mode, you can select DNS load balancing or external load balancing devices, such as F5.

## Multi-zone deployment

A zone is a logical zone that is mapped from one or more IDCs hosting OceanBase Database services.

In multi-zone deployment mode, an OCP cluster is deployed across multiple zones, and access links among OCP, OceanBase Database, and OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) are isolated preferentially by zone. Services hosted in a zone are preferentially managed by OCP in the zone.
