|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Enable transparent data encryption for new tables

This topic describes how to create an encrypted tablespace to enable transparent data encryption (TDE) for new tables.

OceanBase Database provides data encryption methods that are compatible with Oracle databases and encrypts data in tablespaces. OceanBase Database does not support multiple files, and the concept of tablespaces is designed for compatibility. A tablespace is a collection of tables.

This topic describes how to create a table `t1` in an encrypted tablespace `sectest_ts1` and enable TDE for the table.

## Enable TDE in internal mode

In internal mode, the encryption information of the master key is managed in internal tables, and clogs are not encrypted to avoid circular dependency during log replay.

1. Log on to an Oracle tenant of a cluster as the administrator.

2. Execute the following statement to enable TDE in internal mode.

   The `tde_method` parameter specifies the encryption method for a transparent tablespace. The default value is `none`, which indicates that encryption is disabled for the transparent tablespace.

   For more information about the `tde_method` parameter, see [tde_method](../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/3400.tde_method.md).

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Once the <code>tde_method</code> parameter is set, it cannot be modified. Additionally, if a standby tenant exists, the same value should be set in the standby tenant as well. </p>
   </main>

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET tde_method='internal';
   ```

3. Execute the following statement to check whether the value of the `tde_method` parameter is `internal` on all OBServer nodes of the tenant:

   ```shell
   obclient> SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'tde_method';
   ```

4. Create a Keystore.

   The SQL syntax is as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient> ADMINISTER KEY MANAGEMENT CREATE KEYSTORE keystore_name IDENTIFIED BY password;
   ```

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient> ADMINISTER KEY MANAGEMENT CREATE KEYSTORE sectest1 IDENTIFIED BY **3**;
   ```

5. Enable the Keystore.

   The SQL syntax is as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient> ADMINISTER KEY MANAGEMENT SET KEYSTORE OPEN IDENTIFIED BY password;
   ```

   You must replace `password` with the key specified for the Keystore in the previous step.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient> ADMINISTER KEY MANAGEMENT SET KEYSTORE OPEN IDENTIFIED BY **3**;
   ```

6. Execute the following statement to generate the master key:

   ```shell
   obclient> ADMINISTER KEY MANAGEMENT SET KEY IDENTIFIED BY password;
   ```

   You must replace `password` with the key specified for the Keystore previously.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient> ADMINISTER KEY MANAGEMENT SET KEY IDENTIFIED BY **3**;
   ```

7. Create a tablespace and specify the encryption algorithm.

   You can specify any one of the following encryption algorithms: `aes-256`, `aes-128`, `aes-192`, and `sm4-cbc`.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE TABLESPACE sectest_ts1 ENCRYPTION USING 'aes-256';
   ```

## Create a table in an encrypted tablespace

1. Log on to the Oracle tenant as a regular user.

2. Create a table and specify the tablespace.

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE TABLE t1 (id1 int, id2 int) TABLESPACE sectest_ts1;
   ```

   After the table is created, all transactions related to the table are encrypted.

3. Check whether table `t1` in the tablespace is marked as encrypted.

   Execute the following statement to check whether the value of the `encryptionalg` column is `aes-256`:

   ```shell
   obclient> SELECT table_name,encryptionalg,encrypted FROM V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES;
   +------------+---------------+-----------+
   | TABLE_NAME | ENCRYPTIONALG | ENCRYPTED |
   +------------+---------------+-----------+
   | T1         | aes-256       | YES       |
   +------------+---------------+-----------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   If the value of the `encryptionalg` column is `aes-256` and that of the `encrypted` column is `YES`, the table has been encrypted.

   For more information about the `V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES` view, see [V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/500.system-view-of-oracle-mode/300.performance-view-of-oracle-mode/7700.v-encrypted_tables-of-oracle-mode.md).

## References

* [Enable transparent data encryption for an existing table](../300.data-storage-encryption-of-oracle-mode/200.set-storage-encryption-for-existing-tables-of-oracle-mode.md)
* [Decrypt a table](../300.data-storage-encryption-of-oracle-mode/300.unencrypt-of-oracle-mode.md)
