Collection constructor function
===========================

The collection constructor function is a system-defined function with the same name as the collection type. This function returns a collection of this type.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode.
  </main>

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>The constructor function applies only to variable-size arrays (or varrays) and nested tables. Associative arrays do not support the constructor function. In this topic, a collection is a varray or nested table. </p>
</main>


The syntax for calling the constructor function is as follows:

```javascript
collection_type ( [ value [, value ]... ] )
```



`collection_type` indicates the name of the nested table type or varray type that is previously declared, and `value` indicates a valid value of `collection_type`. If `collection_type` indicates a varray, the varray has a maximum number of elements, and the number of elements in it cannot exceed the maximum number. If `collection_type` indicates a nested table, it does not have a maximum value.

If the parameter list is empty, the constructor function returns an empty collection. Otherwise, the constructor function returns a collection that contains specified values.

You can assign the returned collection to a collection variable of the same type in the variable declaration and in the executable part of a block.

**Example: Initialize a collection variable to empty**

```javascript
obclient> DECLARE
  TYPE players IS VARRAY(5) OF VARCHAR2(20);   
  team PLAYERS := players();   -- Initialize to empty.

  PROCEDURE print_team (heading VARCHAR2) IS
  BEGIN
    DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE(heading);
    IF team.COUNT = 0 THEN
      DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('Empty');
    ELSE
      FOR i IN 1..5 LOOP
        DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE(i || '.' || team(i));
      END LOOP;
    END IF;
    DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('---');
  END;

BEGIN
  print_team('Team Members:');
  team := players('Charles', 'Carl', 'James', 'Gary','Brian');
  print_team('Team Members:');
END;
/
Query OK, 0 rows affected

Team Members:
Empty
---
Team Members:
1.Charles
2.Carl
3.James
4.Gary
5.Brian
---
```



In the preceding example, the constructor function is called twice to initialize the varray variable `team` to empty and then assign a new value to the variable in the executable part of the block. The `print_team` stored procedure displays the initial and final values of `team`. `print_team` uses the `COUNT` collection method to check whether `team` is empty.
