Records
=======================

A record stores logically related data as a unit. It contains at least one member of the scalar or `RECORD` data type, which is referred to as a field of the PL record. The fields store different but logically related information.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Initial values of record variables
-----------------------------

For a variable of the `RECORD` type, the initial value of each field is `NULL` unless otherwise specified when the type is defined.

For a record variable declared by using `%ROWTYPE` or `%TYPE`, the initial value of each field is `NULL`. The variable does not inherit the initial value of the referenced item.

Declare record constants
---------------------------

When you declare a record constant, you must first create a function, initialize the record, and call the function in the constant declaration.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE my_rec_types IS
  TYPE rec IS RECORD (a NUMBER, b NUMBER,k NUMBER);
  FUNCTION init_rec RETURN rec;
END my_rec_types;
/
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE BODY my_rec_types IS
  FUNCTION init_rec RETURN rec IS
    c_rec REC;
  BEGIN
    c_rec.a := 111;
    c_rec.b := 222;
    c_rec.k := 333;
    RETURN c_rec;
  END init_rec;
END my_rec_types;
/
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> DECLARE
  r CONSTANT my_rec_types.rec := my_rec_types.init_rec();
BEGIN
  DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('r.a = ' || r.a);
  DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('r.b = ' || r.b);
  DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('r.k = ' || r.k);
END;
/
Query OK, 0 rows affected

r.a = 111
r.b = 222
r.k = 333
```



Record types
-------------------------

A `RECORD` type defined in a PL block is a local type.

A `RECORD` type defined in a package specification is a public `RECORD` type. You can use `package_name.type_name` to limit the package name and reference the type from outside of the package. The `RECORD` type is stored in the database, and will also be dropped when you use the `DROP PACKAGE` statement to drop the program package.

You cannot create a `RECORD` type at the schema level. Therefore, a `RECORD` type cannot be an abstract data type (ADT).

When you define a `RECORD` type, you must specify its name and field type. To define a field, you need to specify its name and data type. By default, the initial value of a field is `NULL`. You can specify a `NOT NULL` constraint for a field. In this case, the initial value must not be `NULL`. If you do not specify a `NOT NULL` constraint for a field, its initial value can be `NULL`.

A `RECORD` type defined in a package specification is incompatible with a local `RECORD` type with the same definition.

When you define a `RECORD` variable type, you can use a data type supported by the stored procedure, or use the `%TYPE` method to copy the type of the table or cursor column. Here is an example:

```sql
DECLARE
   TYPE region_record_type IS RECORD (
       id REGIONS.region_id%TYPE,
       name REGIONS.region_name%TYPE
   );
   region_record region_record_type;
```



In OceanBase Database, records can be nested with other complex data types such as collections and arrays.

The following example shows a `RECORD` type with a varray field.

```sql
DECLARE
  TYPE empname IS VARRAY(3) OF VARCHAR2(20);

  TYPE contact IS RECORD (
    name empname := empname('Zhang','San','Feng'),  -- A varray field.
    phone employees.phone_number%TYPE
  );
  emp contact;
BEGIN
   emp.phone := '123456789';
   DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE (
         emp.name(1) || ' ' ||
         emp.name(2) || ' ' ||
         emp.name(3) || ', ' ||
         emp.phone
   );
END;/
Query OK, 0 rows affected

Zhang San Feng, 123456789
```



Record variables
-------------------------

Record variables include individual record variables and composite record variables.

You can assign a value to each field of a record variable. In some cases, you can also assign the value of one record variable to another. If a record variable represents a full or partial row of a database table or view, you can assign the value of the row to the record variable.

### Assign the value of one record variable to another

You can assign the value of one record variable to another only when the following conditions are met:

* The two variables have the same `RECORD` type.



* The target variable is declared by using a `RECORD` type, and the source variable is declared by using `％ROWTYPE`. Their fields match in quantity and sequence, and the corresponding fields have the same data type.






### Assign a full or partial row to a record variable

If a record variable represents a full or partial row of a database table or view, you can assign the row to the record variable by using one of the following methods:

* Use `SELECT INTO` to assign the row to the record variable.

   The syntax of a simple `SELECT INTO` declaration is as follows:

   ```sql
   SELECT select_list INTO record_variable_name FROM table_or_view_name;
   ```



   For each column in `select_list`, the record variable must have a corresponding field that is compatible with the column in type. The sequence of columns in `select_list` must be the same as the sequence of fields in the record variable.


* Use `FETCH` to assign the row to the record variable.

   The syntax of a simple `FETCH` declaration is as follows:

   ```sql
   FETCH cursor INTO record_variable_name;
   ```



   The cursor is associated with a query. For each column selected by the query, the record variable must have a corresponding compatible field that is compatible with the column in type. The cursor must be an explicit cursor or a strongly-typed cursor variable.


* Use SQL statements to return the rows in the PL record variable.

   The `RETURNING INTO` clause specifies the variable that stores the value returned by the statement to which the clause belongs. The `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` SQL statements with the `RETURNING INTO` clause can return the rows in the PL record variable.





### Assign the NULL value to a record variable

When you assign the `NULL` value to a record variable, the `NULL` value is assigned to each field in this record variable.

The assignment is recursive. If a field is a record, its fields are also assigned the `NULL` value.

Create a record
-------------------------

The internal components of a record are referred to as fields. A field in a record is accessed by using the format of ***record name.field name***.

The following three methods are available for you to create a record:

* Declare a `RECORD` type and then declare a variable of this type. The syntax is as follows:

   ```sql
   TYPE record_name IS RECORD
   ( field_name data_type [:= initial_value]
   [, field_name data_type [:= initial_value ] ]... );

   variable_name record_name;
   ```



* Declare a variable type and associate it with the row type of a table. The syntax is as follows:

   ```sql
   variable_name table_name%ROWTYPE ;
   ```


   **Note**



   The fields in the record variable must correspond to the column names and data types of the table.


* Declare a variable type and associate it with the data type of a cursor. The syntax is as follows:

   ```sql
   variable_name cursor_name%ROWTYPE ;
   ```


   **Note**



   The fields in the record variable must correspond to the column names and data types in the `SELECT` query of the cursor.
   Here is an example:

   ```sql
   obclient> DECLARE
       TYPE my_rec IS RECORD(
             code VARCHAR2(10),
             name VARCHAR2(50) NOT NULL :='book');
       v_book MY_REC;
   BEGIN
       v_book.code :='10000';
       v_book.name :='OceanBase PL Developer Guide';
       DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE(v_book.code||': '||v_book.name);
   END;
   /
   Query OK, 0 rows affected

   10000: OceanBase PL Developer Guide
   ```


   **Note**



   The operations on record variables are the same as those on common variables. You can use the `SELECT INTO` statement to assign values to record variables.




