|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

Most applications require databases, and the performance of the applications significantly depends on the underlying databases. Excellent database performance improves user experience, whereas poor database performance results in application performance bottlenecks.

You can optimize the database performance to improve resource utilization, reduce business costs, minimize operation risks of the application systems, and enhance system stability, bringing about more value to customers.

This document describes the performance tuning tools, operating system parameters, database parameters, typical scenarios, SQL diagnostics, SQL performance tuning, and performance tuning cases. It provides comprehensive guidance for database performance tuning engineers.

## Performance tuning factors

The operation of a database requires system resources, such as CPU resources, memory resources, and network bandwidth. These resources have a significant effect on the operation of a database system. The utilization efficiency of system resources during database operation is an important factor in evaluating database performance.

The throughput and response time of a database are two important concepts for database performance evaluation. Different application systems have different requirements for throughput and response time. You must tune the database performance to match features of the application system for optimal application performance.

Database engineers must design database performance tuning solutions from multiple perspectives, such as the system architecture, server configuration, database configuration, business model, and SQL execution plans. To use data services with high throughput and low latency at low costs, you can focus on the system resource usage, throughput, and response time during performance tuning.

## Performance tuning goals

The ultimate goal of database performance tuning is to fully use the software and hardware resources of each database server to provide highly efficient data services.
