# BINARY and VARBINARY

The `BINARY` and `VARBINARY` types are similar to the `CHAR` and `VARCHAR` types. The difference is that the `BINARY` and `VARBINARY` types store binary data instead of strings.

The `BINARY` and `VARBINARY` types use the binary character set and collation.

## BINARY

The `BINARY` type is similar to the `CHAR` type, but it stores binary byte strings. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
BINARY[(M)]
```

The parameter `M` is optional. It indicates the length of the column in bytes. If you do not specify `M`, the default value 1 is used.

The maximum length of the `BINARY` type is the same as that of the `CHAR` type, except that the former uses bytes as the unit. When strict SQL mode is not enabled, if the value assigned to a `BINARY` column exceeds the maximum length of the column, the excess part of the value is truncated, and an alert is generated.

When `BINARY` values are stored, the values are right-padded with 0x00 to the specified length. If an inserted value ends with 0x00, the trailing bytes for padding are also retained to ensure the retrieval performance. 0x00 and spaces are different in a byte comparison, such as `ORDER BY` or `DISTINCT`. 0x00 is sorted before spaces.

## VARBINARY

The `VARBINARY` type is similar to the `VARCHAR` type, but it stores binary byte strings. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
VARBINARY(M)
```

Here, `M` indicates the maximum column length in bytes.

The maximum length of the `VARBINARY` type is the same as that of the `VARCHAR` type, except that the former uses bytes as the unit. When strict SQL mode is not enabled, if the value assigned to a `VARBINARY` column exceeds the maximum length of the column, the excess part of the value is truncated, and an alert is generated.

When data is inserted into a `VARBINARY` column, the inserted data is not padded, and no tailing bytes are deleted. 0x00 and spaces are different in a byte comparison, such as `ORDER BY` or `DISTINCT`. 0x00 is sorted before spaces.
