Maximum memory for OceanBase Database 
==========================================================



OceanBase Database allows you to set its maximum memory in two methods:

* Determine the maximum memory that can be allocated to OceanBase Database based on the percentage of memory that it can occupy, which is specified by the `memory_limit_percentage` parameter.

  

* Directly set the maximum memory that can be allocated to OceanBase Database by specifying the `memory_limit` parameter. When `memory_limit` is set to 0, the value of memory_limit_percentage prevails. Otherwise, the absolute value is used.

  




The following table gives two configuration examples illustrating how the values of the `memory_limit_percentage` and `memory_limit` parameters affect the actual maximum memory available to OceanBase Database, with the total server memory being 100 GB. 


|    Example    | **memory_limit_percentage** | **memory_limit** | **Maximum memory for OceanBase Database** |
|---------------|-----------------------------|------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Example 1** | 80                          | 0                | 80 GB                                     |
| **Example 2** | 80                          | 90 GB            | 90 GB                                     |



In example 1, `memory_limit` is set to 0. Therefore, the value `memory_limit_percentage` prevails, and the maximum memory for OceanBase Database is 100 GB × 80% = 80 GB. 

In example 2, `memory_limit` is set to 90 GB. Therefore, `memory_limit` determines the maximum memory for OceanBase Database, which is 90 GB. 
**Notice**



Mainstream OceanBase Database servers are usually configured with a 384 GB or 512 GB memory. We recommend that you allocate 80% of the 384 GB server memory or 90% of the 512 GB server memory OceanBase Database.

