# Drop a resource pool

This topic describes how to drop a resource pool.

## Prerequisites

Before you drop a resource pool, make sure that the resource pool is not being used by any tenant. To drop a resource pool being used by a tenant, release the resource pool first and then drop it.

* If a tenant has multiple resource pools, you can modify the resource pool configuration of the tenant to drop a resource pool from the tenant. For more information, see [Modify attributes of a tenant](../600.common-tenant-operations/1000.modify-tenant-properties.md).

* If a tenant has only one resource pool, you cannot directly drop it.

   * Create a resource pool and allocate it to this tenant. Then, modify the resource pool configuration of the tenant to release the resource pool to be dropped. For more information about how to create a resource pool, see the Create a resource pool section in the [Create a tenant](../600.common-tenant-operations/200.manage-create-tenant.md) topic.
   * If the tenant is no longer needed, you can drop the tenant first and then drop the resource pool. For more information, see [Drop a tenant](../600.common-tenant-operations/1200.delete-tenant.md).

## Procedure

1. Log on to the sys tenant of the cluster as the root user.

   ```shell
   obclient -h172.30.xx.xx -P2883 -uroot@sys#cluster -p**** -A
   ```

2. Execute the following statement to go to the database named `oceanbase`:

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> USE oceanbase;
   ```

3. Query the `DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS` view for the configuration information about resource pools. If the value of `TENANT_ID` of a resource pool is NULL, the resource pool is not allocated to any tenant and can be dropped.

   To query the configuration information about the resource pool named `mq_pool_02`, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SELECT TENANT_ID,NAME FROM DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS WHERE NAME = 'mq_pool_02';
   +-----------+------------+
   | tenant_id | name       |
   +-----------+------------+
   |      NULL | mq_pool_02 |
   +-----------+------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS`view, see [oceanbase.DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS](../../../700.reference/500.system-reference/400.system-overview-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/4700.oceanbase-dba_ob_resource_pools-of-mysql-mode.md).

4. Execute the `DROP RESOURCE POOL` statement to drop a resource pool.

   To drop the resource pool named `mq_pool_02`, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> DROP RESOURCE POOL mq_pool_02;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

   For more information about the `DROP RESOURCE POOL` statement, see [DROP RESOURCE POOL](../../../700.reference/400.development-reference/100.sql-syntax/100.system-tenants/900.drop-resource-pool.md).

5. Query the `DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS` view to verify whether the resource pool is successfully dropped.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SELECT * FROM DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS WHERE NAME = 'mq_pool_02';
   Empty set
   ```

## More information

* [Create a tenant](../600.common-tenant-operations/200.manage-create-tenant.md)

* [Modify attributes of a tenant](../600.common-tenant-operations/1000.modify-tenant-properties.md)

