# Build oblogproxy by using the source code

You can deploy oblogproxy by downloading the installation package or using the source code. This topic describes how to build ologproxy by using the source code.

## Prerequisites

You have installed CMake 3.20 or later. To download CMake, visit the [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/) website.

## Compile oblogproxy

### Install dependencies

Install dependencies based on the operating system:

* Fedora-based operating systems, including CentOS, Fedora, OpenAnolis, RedHat, and UOS

   ```bash
   yum install git wget rpm rpm-build cpio gcc gcc-c++ make glibc-devel glibc-headers libstdc++-static binutils
   ```

* Debian-based operating systems, including Debian and Ubuntu

   ```bash
   apt-get install git wget rpm rpm2cpio cpio gcc make build-essential binutils
   ```

### Compilation steps

```bash
mkdir buildenv && cd buildenv
# Generate
cmake ..
# Execute
make -j 6
```

> **Note**
>
> After you perform the preceding steps, `logproxy` binary files are generated in the current directory.

### Compilation options

When you run CMake compilation, you can add compilation options to change the default compilation behavior. For example, by default, when the demo is generated after compilation, the `demo_client` binaries will also be generated in the current directory.

```bash
mkdir buildenv && cd buildenv
cmake -DWITH_DEMO=ON ..
make -j 6
```

#### Define <span>libobcdc.so</span>

1. Obtain <span>libobcdc.so</span>

   You can download the precompiled obcdc package or build obcdc on your own.

   * Download the precompiled package

      You can download the precompiled package from the [Release](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase/releases) page. The obcdc package is named in the "oceanbase-ce-cdc-${package_version}"  format. Download a package for your system and decompress it.``



      ```bash
      rpm2cpio oceanbase-ce-cdc-${package_version} | cpio -idv
      ```

      In the directory to which the RPM package is decompressed, the `home/admin/oceanbase` directory exists and contains the following components that are essential for the running of obcdc:

      * Library files: `libobcdc.so` in the `lib64/` directory.
      * Header files: `libobcdc.h` and `ob_errno.h` in the `include/libobcdc/` directory.

   * Compile obcdc

      For more information about operations, see [obcdc compilation instructions](../../200.obcdc/100.deploy-and-use-obcdc/100.install-and-deploy-obcdc.md).

      ```bash
      git clone https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase.git && cd oceanbase

      ./build.sh release -DOB_BUILD_CDC=ON --init --make
      ```

      The compiled outputs include:

      * <span>libobcdc.so</span>: in the `${PROJECT_BUILD_DIR}/src/logservice/libobcdc/src/` directory.
      * obcdc_tailf: in the `$${PROJECT_BUILD_DIR}/src/logservice/libobcdc/tests/` directory.

2. Compile oblogproxy

   If you choose to customize <span>libobcdc.so</span>, enable obcdc customization and specify the path in the compilation command when you compile oblogproxy. The following example assumes that you have put the `libobcdc.so` and `libobcdc.h` files in the `/path/to/obcdc` directory.

   ```bash
   mkdir buildenv && cd buildenv
   # Set the CMake environment variables so that CMake can find the precompiled obcdc.
   CMAKE_INCLUDE_PATH=/path/to/obcdc CMAKE_LIBRARY_PATH=/path/to/obcdc cmake -DUSE_LIBOBLOG=ON ..
   # Execute
   make -j 6
   ```

#### All compilation parameters

| Option | Default value | Description |
|---------------|-----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| WITH_DEBUG | ON | Specifies to use the Debug symbol in debug mode. |
| WITH_ASAN | OFF | Specifies to use [AddressSanitizer](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/AddressSanitizer) in the compilation. |
| WITH_TEST | OFF | Test |
| WITH_DEMO | OFF | Demo |
| WITH_GLOG | ON | Specifies to use glog. |
| WITH_DEPS | ON | Specifies to automatically download precompiled dependencies. |
| USE_LIBOBLOG | OFF | Specifies to use the custom compiled obcdc. |
| USE_CXX11_ABI | ON | Specifies whether to use C++11 ABI.</br> **Notice**  </br>If you use precompiled dependencies (obcdc), the value of this parameter must be consistent with the one that you specified for obcdc. Otherwise, symbols cannot be found.  |

### Notes on dependency compilation

By default, CMake automatically downloads and compiles dependency libraries. However, pay attention to the following components:

* OpenSSL: The currently used version is 1.0.1e.

   > **Notice**
   >
   > In OpenSSL 1.0.\* or 1.1.\*, some APIs are incompatible. At present, obcdc and logproxy are both implemented based 1.0.\*. Therefore, you must ensure that the versions are consistent.

* obcdc: As described earlier, you can download a precompiled obcdc or compile it on your own, and then set the environment variables to specify the path of obcdc. LD_LIBRARY_PATH must be specified for running obcdc.
* libaio: obcdc dependency.

## Install oblogproxy

### Configure the sys tenant.

The oblogproxy configuration file `conf.json` can be found in the code directory.

You must specify the username and password of a user for the security of oblogproxy. Only a user in the sys tenant of OceanBase Database can be connected.

> **Notice**
>
> The username of this user cannot contain the cluster name or tenant name.

After you obtain the account and password of the sys tenant of your OBServer node, you must encrypt them and configure them for oblogproxy. Run the following commands to obtain the encrypted strings of the account and password:

```bash
# Assume that the account and password are user and pswd.
./logproxy -x user
# After you run the command, you will get the following string: 4B9C75F64934174F4E77EE0E9A58****
./logproxy -x pswd
# After you run the command, you will get the following string: DCE2AF09D006D6A440816880B938****
```

Copy the encrypted account and password strings to the `ob_sys_username` and `ob_sys_password` fields of the conf.json file in the `/usr/local/oblogproxy/conf/` directory. For example:

```bash
{
  "ob_sys_username": "4B9C75F64934174F4E77EE0E9A58****",
  "ob_sys_password": "DCE2AF09D006D6A440816880B938****"
}
```

### Organize the program directory.

```bash
# Create a program directory.
mkdir -p ./oblogproxy/bin ./oblogproxy/run
# Copy the configuration file.
cp -r ../conf ./oblogproxy/
# Copy the start and stop script.
cp ../script/run.sh ./oblogproxy/
# Copy the program binaries.
cp logproxy ./oblogproxy/bin/
```

### Run oblogproxy

You can run the following commands to start the service.

```bash
cd ./oblogproxy
# Specify the libobcdc.so directory for dynamic dependence of oblogproxy.
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/path/to/libobcdc
bash ./run.sh start
```

By default, the `2983` port is listened to. You can set the `service_port` field in the `conf.json` file to change the port. The service logs of oblogproxy are stored in the `logs/` directory. The service logs of the LogReader thread are stored in the `run/{client-id}/logs/` directory.

> **Note**
>
> You can then use oblogclient for OceanBase data subscription. For more information, see [Documentation](https://github.com/oceanbase/oblogclient).

## Link encryption

### TLS communication between oblogclient and oblogproxy

In the `conf.json` file, make the following changes:

* `channel_type`: "tls". Enable TLS for communication with oblogclient.
* `tls_ca_cert_file`: the path of the CA certificate file.
* `tls_cert_file`: the path of the server-side signature certificate.
* `tls_key_file`: the path of the server-side private key.
* `tls_verify_peer`: "true". Enable verification for oblogclient.

> **Notice**
>
> * Configure oblogclient accordingly. For more information, see [oblogclient link encryption](https://github.com/oceanbase/oblogclient).
> * All the preceding paths must be absolute paths.

### TLS communication between oblogproxy (obcdc) and OBServer nodes

> **Note**
>
> oblogproxy runs obcdc to interact with an OBServer node.

In the `conf.json` file, make the following changes:

* `liboblog_tls`: The value "true" specifies to enable TLS communication with an OBServer node.
* `liboblog_tls_cert_path`: the absolute path of the related OBServer node certificate files. You may copy the `wallet` folder in the OBServer node deployment file directory. Ensure that the directory includes the following files: ca.pem, client-cert.pem, and client-key.pem.
