|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Use OMS to migrate data from an OceanBase tenant to another of the same type in active-active disaster recovery scenarios

This topic describes how to use OceanBase Migration Service (OMS) to migrate data from an OceanBase tenant to another of the same type in active-active disaster recovery scenarios. 

## Background information

As more and more users use OMS for data migration, there is an increasing need for OMS to address diverse user scenarios. In addition to the widely used scenarios of single-region data migration and data synchronization, OMS also supports data migration across regions and data synchronization or active-active synchronization between remote cities.

OMS supports the following active-active disaster recovery scenarios:

* Local data migration and synchronization

* Local primary/standby disaster recovery

* Local active-active disaster recovery

* Remote data migration and synchronization

* Remote primary/standby disaster recovery

* Remote active-active disaster recovery

Primary/Standby disaster recovery is common in scenarios with data disaster recovery requirements. You can create a real-time data synchronization project between the primary and standby IDCs based on OMS. When the primary IDC encounters disasters or downtime, the business can be switched to the standby IDC to avoid business interruption. 

However, primary/standby disaster recovery causes a waste of resources in the standby IDC. Therefore, OMS provides an active-active solution to allow two IDCs to share business traffic. 

When you migrate data between tenants of OceanBase Database in an active-active disaster recovery scenario, no forward switchover is performed, and you can enable DDL parameters only for one link. 

<!-- ## References

For more information about how to use OMS to migrate data from an OceanBase tenant to another of the same type in active-active disaster recovery scenarios, see [Migrate data within OceanBase Database in active-active disaster recovery scenarios](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oms-doc-cn-1000000000091376).  -->
