| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Fixed-point data types

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>If you use a <code>DECIMAL</code> type column as the partitioning key and use OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) to connect to OceanBase Database, you must use ODP V4.2.3 or later to ensure accurate routing. </p>
</main>

The fixed-point data types are used to store precise numeric values with variable lengths. The value range and precision of a fixed-point data type depend on the precision and scale parameters and whether the data type is unsigned.

`DECIMAL` is equivalent to `NUMERIC`. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
DECIMAL[(M[,D])] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```

Here, `M` specifies the precision, which is the total number of digits that can be stored. `D` specifies the scale, which is the number of decimal places. The decimal point (.) and minus sign (-) are not counted in `M`. If `D` is 0, the value does not have the decimal point or fractional part. The result of subtracting `D` from `M` is the maximum number of valid digits in the integer part. When neither `M` nor `D` is specified, the precision is 65 digits for the results of all basic operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division) involving a `DECIMAL` column.

In the `DECIMAL` syntax, the maximum value of `M` is 65, and the maximum value of `D` is 30. If `D` is not specified, the value of `D` is 0. If `M` is not specified, the value of `M` is 10.

If you specify the `ZEROFILL` attribute for a numeric column, OceanBase Database automatically adds the `UNSIGNED` attribute to the column. If a column is defined as `UNSIGNED`, the column values cannot be negative.

For example, `DECIMAL(5,2)` indicates that the maximum number of valid digits in the integral part is 3 and that in the fractional part is 2, so the value range is \[-999.99,999.99\]. If you specify the `UNSIGNED` attribute, the value range is \[0,999.99\].

Data types in the following syntax are synonyms for the `DECIMAL` data type. Among them, `FIXED` is compatible with other database systems.

```sql
DEC[(M[,D])] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL], NUMERIC[(M[,D])] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL], FIXED[(M[,D])] [UNSIGNED] [ZEROFILL]
```