# Install and deploy oblogmsg

This topic describes what oblogmsg is and how to install and deploy it.

## oblogmsg

oblogmsg is a message format used by obcdc, the incremental data collection module of OceanBase Database, to export incremental data. oblogmsg supports writing incremental data of different types in OceanBase Database. It also supports data serialization and deserialization.

## Use oblogmsg

### Prerequisites

* You have installed CMake: 3.20.0 or later.
* You have installed g++ that supports C++11 standard

### Use the source code to make oblogmsg a dependency (recommended)

* Use the `git submodule` method to make oblogmsg a submodule of the project.
* In the `CMakeLists.txt` file of the project, run the `add_subdirectory(submodule_path_to_oblogmsg)` command to make the project depend on oblogmsg. After you run this command, two targets are provided: `oceanbase::oblogmsg_shared` and `oceanbase::oblogmsg_static`.
* In the `CMakeLists.txt` file of the project, run the `target_link_libraries(t1 PRIVATE oceanbase::oblogmsg_shared)` or `target_link_libraries(t1 PRIVATE oceanbase::oblogmsg_static)` command on Target t1 that needs to depend on oblogmsg.

### Use the compiled oblogmsg library as a dependency

* Compile and install oblogmsg

   ```unknow
   # Compile ologmsg
   git clone https://github.com/oceanbase/oblogmsg.git
   mkdir oblogmsg-build
   cd oblogmsg-build
   cmake -S ../oblogmsg -B .
   cmake --build .

   # Local installation
   cmake --install . --prefix=${OBLOGMSG_INSTALL_PATH}
   ```

* Make the compiled and installed oblogmsg a dependency of the project

   * In the `CMakeLists.txt` file of the project, run the `set(CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH $ENV{OBLOGMSG_INSTALL_PATH} ${CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH})` command to set the search path for the oblogmsg library.
   * Run the `find_package(oblogmsg REQUIRED)` command to load oblogmsg. After you run this command, two targets are provided: `oceanbase::oblogmsg_shared` and `oceanbase::oblogmsg_static`.
   * In the `CMakeLists.txt` file of the project, run the `target_link_libraries(t1 PRIVATE oceanbase::oblogmsg_shared)` or `target_link_libraries(t1 PRIVATE oceanbase::oblogmsg_static)` command on Target t1 that needs to depend on oblogmsg.
