# Automatically clean up expired backup data

You can set a backup cleanup strategy for a tenant according to your requirements. Once a cleanup strategy is set, the system triggers automatic cleanup for the tenant every hour, ensuring that expired backup data is promptly removed.

In the current version of OceanBase Database, expired backups can only be automatically cleaned up and cannot be manually cleaned up.

## Considerations

* The cleanup of the archive log data depends on data backup. Before you clean up archive log data, confirm that a data backup file exists. If no data backup file exists, the archive log data cannot be cleaned up.

* Automatic cleanup applies only to the data at the backup destinations specified by `data_backup_dest` and `log_archive_dest`. If the backup destination changes, the expired backup data cannot be cleaned up in OceanBase Database.

* At least one copy of valid backup data is retained after automatic cleanup. If only one copy of valid backup data exists, this data copy will never be cleaned up.

* When you clean up backup data from Network File System (NFS), the system directly deletes backup files that meet the requirements. When you clean up backup data from Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS), the backup file cleanup mode is specified by the `delete_mode` parameter in `data_backup_dest` and `log_archive_dest`. For more information, see [Preparations](../400.data-backup/100.preparation-before-data-backup.md).

## Set a cleanup strategy

### Set a cleanup strategy for a user tenant

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of a user tenant.

2. Set a cleanup strategy. This is equivalent to enabling automatic cleanup for the tenant.

   The syntax is as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM ADD DELETE BACKUP POLICY policy_name RECOVERY_WINDOW recovery_window;
   ```

   where

   * `POLICY` specifies the name of the cleanup strategy. It can be set to `default` only, which indicates that automatic cleanup applies only to the data in the backup destinations specified by `data_backup_dest` and `log_archive_dest`.

   * `RECOVERY_WINDOW` specifies the time window for restoring backup data. For more information about this parameter, see [recovery_window](../500.clear-backup-data/500.parameters-of-cleaning-up-backup.md).

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM ADD DELETE BACKUP POLICY 'default' RECOVERY_WINDOW '7d';
   ```

### Set a cleanup strategy in the sys tenant

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Set a cleanup strategy. This is equivalent to enabling automatic cleanup for the tenant.

   The syntax is as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM ADD DELETE BACKUP POLICY policy_name RECOVERY_WINDOW recovery_window TENANT tenant_name;
   ```

   where

   * `POLICY` specifies the name of the cleanup strategy. It can be set to `default` only, which indicates that automatic cleanup applies only to the data in the backup destinations specified by `data_backup_dest` and `log_archive_dest`.

   * `RECOVERY_WINDOW` specifies the time window for restoring backup data. For more information about this parameter, see [recovery_window](../500.clear-backup-data/500.parameters-of-cleaning-up-backup.md).

   * `TENANT` specifies the tenant on which the cleanup strategy takes effect. You can specify the name of only one user tenant.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>At present, you can set only tenant-level cleanup strategies but not cluster-level cleanup strategies. Each statement sets one cleanup strategy for only one tenant. </p>
  </main>

To set a cleanup strategy for the `MySQL` tenant from the sys tenant, execute the following statement:

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM ADD DELETE BACKUP POLICY 'default' RECOVERY_WINDOW '7d' TENANT MySQL;
```

## Query configured cleanup strategies

You can query views for the configured cleanup strategies of all tenants from the sys tenant or for the configured cleanup strategies of a user tenant.

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of the sys tenant or a user tenant.

2. Query the configured cleanup strategies.

   * Query the `oceanbase.CDB_OB_BACKUP_DELETE_POLICY` view for the cleanup strategies of all tenants from the sys tenant.

      Here is an example:

      ```shell
      obclient> SELECT * FROM oceanbase.CDB_OB_BACKUP_DELETE_POLICY;
      +-----------+-------------+-----------------+
      | TENANT_ID | POLICY_NAME | RECOVERY_WINDOW |
      +-----------+-------------+-----------------+
      |      1002 | default     | 7d              |
      +-----------+-------------+-----------------+
      1 row in set
      ```

   * Query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_BACKUP_DELETE_POLICY` or `sys.DBA_OB_BACKUP_DELETE_POLICY` view for the cleanup strategies of the current user tenant.

      * MySQL tenant

         ```sql
         obclient [(none)]> SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_BACKUP_DELETE_POLICY;
         +-------------+-----------------+
         | POLICY_NAME | RECOVERY_WINDOW |
         +-------------+-----------------+
         | default     | 7d              |
         +-------------+-----------------+
         1 row in set
         ```

      * Oracle tenant

         ```sql
         obclient [SYS]> SELECT * FROM sys.DBA_OB_BACKUP_DELETE_POLICY;
         +-------------+-----------------+
         | POLICY_NAME | RECOVERY_WINDOW |
         +-------------+-----------------+
         | default     | 7d              |
         +-------------+-----------------+
         1 row in set
         ```
