# Enable transparent data encryption for new tables

This topic describes how to create an encrypted tablespace to enable transparent data encryption (TDE) for new tables.

OceanBase Database encrypts data in tablespaces. OceanBase Database does not support multiple files, and the concept of tablespaces is designed for compatibility. A tablespace is a collection of tables.

This topic describes how to create a table `t1` in an encrypted tablespace `sectest_ts1` and enable TDE for the table.

## Limitations

* Encryption cannot be enabled for the sys tenant.
* After you enable TDE for a tenant, the tenant cannot use other encryption methods. To use another encryption method, re-create a tenant.

## Enable storage encryption in internal mode

In internal mode, the encryption information of the master key is managed in internal tables, and clogs are not encrypted to avoid circular dependency during log replay.

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of a cluster as an administrator.

2. Execute the following statement to enable TDE in internal mode.

   The `tde_method` parameter specifies the encryption method for a transparent tablespace. The default value is `none`, which indicates that encryption is disabled for the transparent tablespace.

   For more information about the `tde_method` parameter, see [tde_method](../../../../700.reference/500.system-reference/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/3400.tde_method.md). 

     <main id="notice" type='notice'>
       <h4>Notice</h4>
       <p>After the <code>tde_method</code> parameter is set, it cannot be modified. </p>
      </main>

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET tde_method='internal';
   ```

3. Execute the following statement to check whether the value of the `tde_method` parameter is `internal` on all OBServer nodes of the tenant:

   ```shell
   obclient> SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'tde_method';
   ```

4. If yes, execute the following statement to generate the master key:

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
       <h4>Note</h4>
       <p>The statement takes effect only when the value of the <code>tde_method</code> parameter is <code>internal</code> on all OBServer nodes of the tenant. </p>
      </main>

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER INSTANCE ROTATE INNODB MASTER KEY;
   ```

5. Create a tablespace and specify the encryption algorithm.

   You can specify one of the following encryption algorithms: `'aes-256'`, `'aes-128'`, `'aes-192'`, and `'sm4-cbc'`. If you set the `sectest_ts1 encryption` parameter to `'y'`, the aes-256 algorithm is used.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE TABLESPACE sectest_ts1 encryption = 'y';
   ```

## Create a table in an encrypted tablespace

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of the database as a regular user.

2. Log on to the database, create a table, and specify the tablespace.

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE TABLE t1 (id1 int, id2 int) TABLESPACE sectest_ts1;
   ```

   After the table is created, all transactions related to the table are encrypted.

3. Check whether table `t1` in the tablespace is marked as encrypted.

   Execute the following statement to check whether the value of the `encryptionalg` column is `aes-256`:

   ```shell
   obclient> SELECT table_name,encryptionalg,encrypted FROM oceanbase.V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES;
   +------------+---------------+-----------+
   | table_name | encryptionalg | encrypted |
   +------------+---------------+-----------+
   | t1         | aes-256       | YES       |
   +------------+---------------+-----------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   If the value of the `encryptionalg` column is `aes-256` and that of the `encrypted` column is `YES`, the table has been encrypted.

   For more information about the `V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES` view, see [V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES](../../../../700.reference/500.system-reference/400.system-overview-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/9100.v-encrypted_tables-of-mysql-mode.md).

## References

* [Enable transparent data encryption for an existing table](../200.data-storage-encryption-of-mysql-mode/200.set-storage-encryption-for-existing-tables-of-mysql-mode.md)
* [Decrypt a table](../200.data-storage-encryption-of-mysql-mode/300.unencrypt-of-mysql-mode.md)
