# Enable transparent data encryption for existing tables

This topic describes how to enable transparent data encryption (TDE) for existing tables.

OceanBase Database encrypts data in tablespaces. OceanBase Database does not support multiple files, and the concept of tablespace is designed for compatibility. A tablespace is a collection of tables.

This topic describes how to enable TDE for table `t1` in an encrypted tablespace `sectest_ts1`.

## Limitations

* Encryption cannot be enabled for the sys tenant.
* After you enable TDE for a tenant, the tenant cannot use other encryption methods. To use another encryption method, re-create a tenant.

## Enable TDE in internal mode

In internal mode, the encryption information of the master key is managed in internal tables, and clogs are not encrypted to avoid circular dependency during log replay.

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of a cluster as an administrator.

2. Execute the following statement to enable TDE in internal mode.

   The `tde_method` parameter specifies the encryption method for a transparent tablespace. The default value is `none`, which indicates that encryption is disabled for the transparent tablespace.

   For more information about the `tde_method` parameter, see [tde_method](../../../../700.reference/500.system-reference/100.system-configuration-items/400.tenant-level-configuration-items/3400.tde_method.md).

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>After the <code>tde_method</code> parameter is set, it cannot be modified. </p>
   </main>

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET tde_method='internal';
   ```

3. Execute the following statement to check whether the value of the `tde_method` parameter is `internal` on all OBServer nodes of the tenant:

   ```shell
   obclient> SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'tde_method';
   ```

4. If yes, execute the following statement to generate the master key:

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The statement takes effect only when the value of the <code>tde_method</code> parameter is <code>internal</code> on all OBServer nodes of the tenant. </p>
   </main>

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER INSTANCE ROTATE INNODB MASTER KEY;
   ```

5. Create a tablespace and specify the encryption algorithm.

   You can specify one of the following encryption algorithms: `'aes-256'`, `'aes-128'`, `'aes-192'`, and `'sm4-cbc'`. If you set the `sectest_ts1 encryption` parameter to `'y'`, the aes-256 algorithm is used.

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE TABLESPACE sectest_ts1 encryption = 'y';
   ```

## Move an existing table into an encrypted tablespace

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of the database as a regular user.

2. Log on to the database where the `t1` table resides and move the table to the `sectest_ts1` tablespace.

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 TABLESPACE sectest_ts1;
   ```

## Perform TDE on a table

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of the database as a regular user.

2. Set the `progressive_merge_num` parameter to configure a full compaction or progressive compaction task for the table.

   The `progressive_merge_num` parameter specifies the number of progressive compactions on a table. The default value is `0`, which indicates incremental compaction. If you set the parameter to `1`, a full compaction is performed.

   In general, a full compaction is performed on a table. However, a full compaction of a table with a large amount of data may take a long time. In that case, we recommend that you perform a progressive compaction.

   * Perform a full compaction on the table

      1. Set the `progressive_merge_num` parameter to `1`.

         ```shell
         obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 set progressive_merge_num = 1;
         ```

      2. Manually initiate a major compaction.

         For more information, see [Manually trigger a major compaction](../../../../700.reference/200.administrator-guide/200.basic-database-management/500.manage-data-storage/200.merge-management/400.manually-trigger-a-merge.md).

         <main id="notice" type='explain'>
            <h4>Note</h4>
            <p>After a full compaction, all table data is encrypted. You can query the <code>V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES</code> view to check the encryption status. </p>
         </main>

      3. After the compaction is completed, set the `progressive_merge_num` parameter to `0`.

         ```shell
         obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 set progressive_merge_num = 0;
         ```

   * Perform a progressive compaction on the table

      1. Set the `progressive_merge_num` parameter to a value greater than `1`, and run the `OPTIMIZE` command.

         Here is an example:

         ```shell
         obclient> ALTER TABLE t1 SET progressive_merge_num = 3;

         obclient> OPTIMIZE TABLE t1;
         ```

      2. Manually initiate multiple progressive compactions to encrypt all the macroblocks of the table and table indexes.

         The statement to initiate a progressive compaction is as follows:

         ```shell
         obclient> ALTER SYSTEM MAJOR FREEZE;
         ```

         <main id="notice" type='explain'>
            <h4>Note</h4>
            <p>During a progressive compaction, you can query the <code>V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES</code> view to check the encryption status in real time. </p>
         </main>

3. After the compaction is completed, you can execute the following statement to check the view and verify whether all macroblocks are encrypted:

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient> SELECT * FROM oceanbase.V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES;
   +----------+------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+----------------------------------+-------------+------------------+------------------+--------+--------+
   | TABLE_ID | TABLE_NAME | TABLESPACE_ID | ENCRYPTIONALG | ENCRYPTED | ENCRYPTEDKEY                     | MASTERKEYID | BLOCKS_ENCRYPTED | BLOCKS_DECRYPTED | STATUS | CON_ID |
   +----------+------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+----------------------------------+-------------+------------------+------------------+--------+--------+
   |   500010 | t1         |        500009 | aes-256       | YES       | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx7882 |      xxxx08 |                0 |                0 | NORMAL |      0 |
   +----------+------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+----------------------------------+-------------+------------------+------------------+--------+--------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   Check the query result. If the value of the `BLOCKS_DECRYPTED` field is `0`, all macroblocks have been encrypted.

   For more information about the `V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES` view, see [V$OB_ENCRYPTED_TABLES](../../../../700.reference/500.system-reference/400.system-overview-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/9100.v-encrypted_tables-of-mysql-mode.md).

## References

* [Enable transparent data encryption for a new table](../200.data-storage-encryption-of-mysql-mode/100.configure-internal-storage-encryption-of-mysql-mode.md)
* [Decrypt a table](../200.data-storage-encryption-of-mysql-mode/300.unencrypt-of-mysql-mode.md)
