| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Hierarchical query operators

The hierarchical query operators include PRIOR and CONNECT_BY_ROOT, which are valid only in hierarchical queries.

## PRIOR

In a hierarchical query, the `CONNECT BY` condition should contain at least one expression that is qualified by the `PRIOR` operator. The `PRIOR` operator evaluates the immediately following expression for the parent row of the current row in a hierarchical query.

`PRIOR` is most commonly used in equality comparisons on columns. The `PRIOR` keyword can be placed on either side of the comparison operator. Technically, in addition to the equal operator (=), you can use other operators in the `CONNECT BY` clause. However, the conditions created by other operators can cause a loop. In this case, OceanBase Database detects the loop at run time and returns an error.

## CONNECT_BY_ROOT

`CONNECT_BY_ROOT` is a unary operator that is valid only in hierarchical queries. You can specify a column or most expressions as a parameter of the `CONNECT_BY_ROOT` operator. The `CONNECT_BY_ROOT` operator returns values using data from the root row.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>You cannot specify this operator in the <code>START WITH</code> condition or the <code>CONNECT BY</code> condition. </p>
  </main>

For more information about hierarchical queries, see [Hierarchical query](../800.queries-and-subqueries-of-oracle-mode/300.hierarchical-query-of-oracle-mode.md).
