|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Numeric data types

Numeric data types use numeric literals to specify fixed and floating-point numbers. Some numeric data types also support zero, infinity, and not-a-number (NaN) values. This topic describes the `NUMBER` type and floating-point numbers.

## NUMBER

The `NUMBER` type stores both fixed-point and floating-point numbers. This type can store numbers of almost any magnitude.

* Precision:

   Precision specifies the total number of digits of a number. If precision is not specified, the original number provided is stored without rounding.

* Scale:

   Scale specifies the number of digits to the right of the decimal point, down to the least significant digit. Positive scale counts the digits to the right of the decimal point until the least significant digit. Negative scale counts the digits to the left of the decimal point. If you specify a precision without a scale, for example, `NUMBER(6)`, the scale is considered as 0.

A numeric literal can store a number with a maximum precision of 38 digits. If the precision of a literal is higher than that supported by the `NUMBER`, `BINARY_FLOAT`, or `BINARY_DOUBLE` data type, OceanBase Database truncates the literal. If the range of a literal exceeds the boundaries supported by the `NUMBER`, `BINARY_FLOAT`, or `BINARY_DOUBLE` data type, OceanBase Database returns an error.

For example, `NUMBER(8,2)` indicates a precision of 8 and a scale of 2. Therefore, the database stores 100,000 as 100000.00.

Sample valid values of the `NUMBER` type are as follows:

```sql
12
+6.87
0.5
25e-03
-9
```

Sample valid values of the floating-point type are as follows:

```sql
25f
+6.34F
0.5d
-1D
```

## Floating-point numbers

OceanBase Database provides two numeric data types exclusively for floating-point numbers: `BINARY_FLOAT` and `BINARY_DOUBLE`.

These types support all basic features provided by the `NUMBER` type. However, the `NUMBER` type uses decimal precision, whereas the `BINARY_FLOAT` and `BINARY_DOUBLE` types use binary precision. Binary precision enables faster arithmetic calculations and usually reduces storage requirements.

`BINARY_FLOAT` and `BINARY_DOUBLE` are approximate numeric data types. They store approximate representations, rather than exact representations, of decimal values. For example, the value 0.1 cannot be exactly represented by the `BINARY_DOUBLE` or `BINARY_FLOAT` type. These types are often used in scientific calculations. They function like the `FLOAT` and `DOUBLE` types in Java.

Sample valid floating-point numbers are as follows:

```sql
1.2
-1.1
0.
```

In addition to the `NUMBER` and floating-point types, numeric data types also support special representations such as positive infinity, negative infinity, and NaN representations. The following special representations are supported:

* binary_double_infinity

* binary_double_nan

* binary_float_infinity

* binary_float_nan





