|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Datetime data types

OceanBase Database supports datetime data types, including `DATE` and `TIMESTAMP`.

## DATE type

The `DATE` type stores datetime data. Although datetime can be represented by characters or numbers, the `DATE` type has unique attributes.

OceanBase Database stores `DATE` and `TIMESTAMP` data by using 64-bit INT values to record the number of microseconds from 00:00:00 on January 1, 1970.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The <code>DATE</code> and <code>TIMESTAMP</code> types fully support arithmetic operations. You can perform additions and subtractions on these types of data in the same way as those on <code>NUMBER</code> data. </p>
  </main>

The database displays datetime data in a specific format. `DATE` data is displayed in the `DD-MON-RR` format. For example, January 1, 2011 is displayed as `01-JAN-11`. You can change the default format for a cluster or session.

OceanBase Database displays time data in the `HH24::MI:SS` format by default. If you do not specify the time part, the default value is `00::00:00`. If the data contains only the time part, the default value of the date part is the first day of the current month.

## TIMESTAMP type

The `TIMESTAMP` type is an extension of the `DATE` type, which additionally stores the fractional part of time. Therefore, this data type is suitable for storing accurate time values. For example, you can use this data type in an application in which the order of all events must be recorded. The `TIMESTAMP` type does not store time zone information.

The `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` and `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` types store time zone information. You can use these two data types to record and analyze date information across geographical regions. The `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` type stores time zone information. The time zone information is read, written, and processed in the database. The same column can contain values of different time zones. The `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` type does not store time zone information. In an Oracle database, the value of the `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` data type is converted to a time value of the `DBTIMEZONE` data type for storage. In an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database, the `DBTIMEZONE` data type is fixed to the `'+00:00'` format. Therefore, the value of the `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` data type is converted to a UTC time value for storage. Data of the `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` type is displayed based on the time zone of the session.
