|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# ROWID data types

Every row of data stored in a database has an address, and OceanBase Database uses the `ROWID` data type to store the address of each row in the database.

`ROWID` consists of two types: `ROWID` for tables without primary keys, and `ROWID` for tables with primary keys. Universal ROWID (UROWID) supports storing both types of ROWIDs mentioned above.

In OceanBase Database, each table contains a pseudo column named `ROWID`.

A pseudo column functions as a normal column, but is not stored in a table. You can perform the `SELECT` operation on the pseudo column, but not the `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE` operation on the column values. A pseudo column is also similar to an SQL function without parameters. Typically, a function without parameters returns the same value for all rows in the result set, while a pseudo column returns different values for different rows.

A `ROWID` in a table with a primary key is obtained by performing Base64 encoding on the combination of generated columns of the primary key column and partitioning key in each row.

The values of a `ROWID` pseudo column correspond to the key for each row of data and are obtained after Base64 encoding. In a table with a primary key, the key is the primary key. In a table without a primary key, the key is a sequence automatically generated by the system. You can access the `ROWID` of each row by executing an SQL statement with the reserved `ROWID` field as the column name.

A `ROWID` in a table without a primary key consists of the `tablet id` and the hidden primary key column, which is then converted based on Base64 encoding. Both the `tablet id` and hidden primary key column can be represented by 64-bit integers. Therefore, a `ROWID` in a table without a primary key is at a fixed `length`.

You can access the `ROWID` of each row by executing an SQL statement with the reserved `ROWID` field as the column name.