|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# LOB data types

OceanBase Database currently supports the following two large object (LOB) data types:  character large object (CLOB) and binary large object (BLOB).

A LOB object consists of data and related information called a locator. The locator includes details such as table ID and row ID, determining which table and row the object corresponds to. Currently, the storage of LOBs is similar to `VARCHAR` types, where only the data part is stored, and the upper-layer interface generates the locator part during queries.

`LOB` objects can be assigned to any object of the same type. In most cases, users can work with `LOB` objects in applications without considering the semantics of the locator. While in some scenarios, the locator is necessary, and in others, redundant locator information may be included.

When reading and modifying `LOB` objects, the use of a locator is optional.

## Not using the locator

In many operations, `LOB` objects are treated like the `VARCHAR2` and `RAW` types. These operations use only the data of `LOB` objects while ignoring their locators. Such operations include the following ones:

* SQL and procedural language (PL) built-in functions

* API operations that allow you to query data in a `LOB` column or insert data into a `LOB` column:

   * Insert character data into a `CLOB` column by binding variables of a `LOB` column or insert `RAW` data into a `BLOB` column. For example, you can insert a `VARCHAR2` buffer into a `CLOB` column in PL.

   * Define the output in your application as character data queried from a `CLOB` column or `RAW` data queried from a `BLOB` column. For example, you can store queried `CLOB` data to a `VARCHAR2` buffer in PL.

## Using the locator

Use LOB API operations provided by OceanBase Database and enter LOB objects as parameters. Most of the API operations are contained in the `DBMS_LOB` package, including `DBMS_LOB.READ`, `DBMS_LOB.WRITE`, and `DBMS_LOB.UPDATE`.
