# LOCK_SCHEMA_STATS

The `LOCK_SCHEMA_STATS` procedure locks statistics for all tables in a schema.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_STATS.LOCK_SCHEMA_STATS(
  ownname          VARCHAR2,
  stattype         VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'ALL');
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|----------|---------------------------|
| ownname | The name of the schema.  |
| stattype | The type of the statistics to be locked. Three types are supported: <ul><li> `'ALL'` </li>  <li> `'DATA'`   </li>  <li> `'CACHE'` </li>  </ul> |


## Considerations

* To call this procedure, you must be the owner of the table. If the object is in the `sys` tenant, you must be the owner of the table or have the `SYSDBA` privilege.

* When statistics on a table are locked, all statistics dependent on the table are locked, including table-level statistics, column-level statistics, histogram statistics, and statistics on all dependent indexes.

* If the statistics on an object are locked, an error occurs when you execute a `SET_*`, `DELETE_*`, `IMPORT_*`, or `GATHER_*` procedure to modify the statistics on a single table, index, or column.

* When you call the `EXPORT_*_STATS` procedure, the lock or unlock status is not exported with the table-level statistics.

* The `UNLOCK_SCHEMA_STATS` or `UNLOCK_TABLE_STATS` procedure cannot unlock the statistics on corresponding partitions. When you call the `LOCK_TABLE_STATS` procedure, it will set a table-level lock position. In this case, you cannot collect statistics on dependent objects such as partitions and indexes. In addition, if table-level statistics are locked, the dependent objects are also locked. In this case, you do not need to explicitly call the `LOCK_PARTITION_STATS` procedure to lock partition statistics.


## Examples

Lock the statistics on all tables in the `hr` schema.

```sql
obclient> CALL DBMS_STATS.LOCK_SCHEMA_STATS(ownname=>'hr', stattype=>'ALL');
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
