| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# UNLOCK_TABLE_STATS

The `UNLOCK_TABLE_STATS` procedure unlocks table-level statistics.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_STATS.UNLOCK_TABLE_STATS (
  ownname    VARCHAR2,
  tabname    VARCHAR2,
  stattype   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'ALL');
```



## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|----------|-----------------------|
| ownname | The username. If the username is set to `NULL`, the current logon username is used by default.  |
| tabname | The name of the table.  |
| stattype | The type of the statistics to be locked. Three types are supported: <ul><li> `'ALL'` </li>  <li> `'DATA'`   </li>  <li> `'CACHE'` </li>  </ul> |



## Considerations

* To call this procedure, you must be the owner of the table. If the object is in the `sys` tenant, you must be the owner of the table or have the `SYSDBA` privilege.

* When statistics on a table are locked, all statistics dependent on the table are locked, including table-level statistics, column-level statistics, histogram statistics, and statistics on all dependent indexes.

* If the statistics on an object are locked, an error occurs when you execute a `SET_*`, `DELETE_*`, `IMPORT_*`, or `GATHER_*` procedure to modify the statistics on a single table, index, or column.

* The `UNLOCK_SCHEMA_STATS` or `UNLOCK_TABLE_STATS` procedure cannot unlock the statistics on corresponding partitions. When you call the `LOCK_TABLE_STATS` procedure, it sets a table-level lock position. In this case, you cannot collect statistics on dependent objects such as partitions and indexes. In addition, if table statistics are locked, the dependent objects are also locked. In this case, you do not need to explicitly call the `LOCK_PARTITION_STATS` procedure to lock partition statistics.



## Examples

Unlock the table-level statistics on the `t1` table of the `test` user.

```sql
obclient> CALL DBMS_STATS.UNLOCK_TABLE_STATS('test', 't1');
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
