# Date literals

You can specify a DATE value as a string literal. You can also use the TO_DATE function to convert a character or numeric value to a date value.

Date literals are the only case where OceanBase Database accepts a `TO_DATE `expression in place of a string literal. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
TO_DATE('2020-03-25 11:05:00', 'YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS')
```

When you specify a date value as a literal, you must use the Gregorian calendar. You can also specify the date value as an ANSI literal. The ANSI literal does not contain time information and must be specified in the **YYYY-MM-DD** format. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
DATE '2020-03-25'
```

OceanBase Database allows you to specify the default date value of the database as a date literal. When you use the default value in a date expression, OceanBase Database automatically converts a character value in the default date format to a date value. The default date format of the database is specified by the initialization parameter `NLS_DATE_FORMAT`. The default format in the following example is **DD-MON-RR**:

```sql
TO_DATE('25-FEB-20', 'DD-MON-RR')
```

If you specify a date value without a time component, the default time is midnight (00:00:00 for 24-hour clock time and 12:00:00 for 12-hour clock time). If you specify a date value without a date component, the default date is the first day of the current month.

The default date format of OceanBase Database is **DD-MON-RR**. To display both date and time values, you can execute the `ALTER SESSION SET NLS_DATE_FORMAT = 'DD-MON-RR HH24:MI:SS';` statement to change the value of the `NLS_DATE_FORMAT` variable. Therefore, to query a `DATE` column, you must specify the time field in the query, or ensure that the time fields in the `DATE` are set to midnight. Otherwise, the database may not return the query results you expect.

For example, create a table named `Date_Literals` that contains the `ID` and `datecol` columns:

```sql
CREATE TABLE Date_Literals (id NUMBER, datecol DATE);
```

Insert the system time **SYSDATE** of the current session into the table. Use the `TRUNC` function to set the time field to midnight. The `TRUNC` function truncates the date portion of **SYSDATE**, so that the `datecol` column is automatically populated with the default midnight value:

```sql
INSERT INTO Date_Literals VALUES (1,SYSDATE);
INSERT INTO Date_Literals VALUES (2,TRUNC(SYSDATE));
```

The returned result is as follows:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM Date_Literals;
+------+---------------------+
|ID    | DATECOL             |
+------+---------------------+
|    1 | 25-FEB-20 11:28:16  |
|    2 | 25-FEB-20 00:00:00  |
+------+---------------------+
2 rows in set
```

If you do not specify time information in the query statement, you can use a greater-than or less-than condition in the query statement instead of an equality or inequality condition. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM Date_Literals WHERE datecol > TO_DATE('2020-02-24', 'YYYY-MM-DD');
+------+---------------------+
| ID   | DATECOL             |
+------+---------------------+
|    1 | 25-FEB-20 11:28:16  |
|    2 | 25-FEB-20 00:00:00  |
+------+---------------------+
2 rows in set
```

If you use an equality condition, only the date value with midnight is returned as the time because you do not specify time information in the query statement. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM Date_Literals WHERE datecol = TO_DATE('2020-02-25', 'YYYY-MM-DD');
+------+---------------------+
| ID   | DATECOL             |
+------+---------------------+
|    2 | 25-FEB-20 00:00:00  |
+------+---------------------+
2 rows in set
```

Likewise, you can filter out the time fields in the `datecol` column to retrieve only the date fields. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM Date_Literals WHERE TRUNC(datecol) = DATE '2020-02-25';
+------+---------------------+
| ID   | DATECOL             |
+------+---------------------+
|    1 | 25-FEB-20 11:28:16  |
|    2 | 25-FEB-20 00:00:00  |
+------+---------------------+
2 rows in set
```
