# DECLARE ... HANDLER

You can use the `DECLARE ... HANDLER` statement to specify a handler that handles one or more exception conditions. When a condition occurs, the handler executes the specified statement.

## Syntax and parameters

The handler declaration must be subsequent to the variable or condition declaration. The syntax of the `DECLARE ... HANDLER` statement is as follows:

```sql
DECLARE handler_action HANDLER
    FOR condition_value [, condition_value] ...
    statement

handler_action: {
    CONTINUE
  | EXIT
  | UNDO
}

condition_value: {
    mysql_error_code
  | SQLSTATE [VALUE] sqlstate_value
  | condition_name
  | SQLWARNING
  | NOT FOUND
  | SQLEXCEPTION
}
```


`statement` can be a simple statement such as `SET var_name = 1`, or a compound statement written in a `BEGIN ... END` block. For more information, see [PL syntax](../100.basic-syntax-mysql.md).

`handler_action` specifies the action that the handler takes after executing the exception handling statements.

* `CONTINUE`: continues with the current procedure.

* `EXIT`: exits the execution of this stored procedure after the statements in the `BEGIN ... END` block of the handler are executed.

* `UNDO`: not supported.


`condition_value` specifies the condition or condition class for triggering the handler. It can be in any of the following forms:

* `mysql_error_code`: an integer literal of the error code. For example, `5217` indicates an unknown column.

* `SQLWARNING`: shorthand for an `SQLSTATE` value that starts with '01'.

* `condition_name`: the name of the condition specified previously by the `DECLARE ... CONDITION` statement. The condition name can be associated with an error code or an `SQLSTATE` value.

* `NOT FOUND`: shorthand for a `SQLSTATE` value that starts with '02'. This value is related with the context of the cursor and is used to control what happens when the cursor reaches the end of the dataset. If no more rows are available, a No Data condition with an `SQLSTATE` value 02000 appears. To detect this situation, you can set a handler for it or set a handler for the `NOT FOUND` condition.

* `SQLEXCEPTION`: shorthand for `SQLSTATE` values not starting with '00', '01', or '02'.



If a condition that has never been declared for any handler occurs, the system takes the following actions based on the condition class:

* For an `SQLEXCEPTION` condition, the stored program terminates at the statement that raised the condition, which is similar to an `EXIT` handler. If the program is called by another stored program, the calling program follows its own rules to handle the condition.

* For an `SQLWARNING` condition, the program continues the procedure, which is similar to a `CONTINUE` handler.

* For a `NOT FOUND` condition, if the condition is raised normally, the program takes the `CONTINUE` action. If the condition is raised by a `SIGNAL` or `RESIGNAL` statement, the program takes the `EXIT` action.



In the following example, the `DECLARE ... HANDLER` statement is used to declare that the `CONTINUE` operation is to be performed when a duplicate key error occurs, regardless of the `PRIMARY KEY` constraints. Therefore, the default `EXIT` action is not taken upon the second `INSERT` failure. As a result, the final execution result is `3`.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE test.tbl1 (c1 INT, PRIMARY KEY (c1));
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> delimiter//

obclient> CREATE PROCEDURE handler_demo()
       BEGIN
         DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLSTATE '23000' SET @x = 1;
         INSERT INTO test.tbl1 VALUES (101);
         SET @x = 2;
         INSERT INTO test.tbl1 VALUES (101);
         SET @x = 3;
       END;
       //
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> delimiter;

obclient> CALL handler_demo();
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> SELECT @x;
    +------+
    | @x   |
    +------+
    | 3    |
    +------+
1 row in set
```


If you need to ignore a condition, you can declare a `CONTINUE` handler for it and associate it with an empty block. Here is an example:

```sql
DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLWARNING BEGIN END;
```


## Limitations on block labels

The scope of a block label does not include the code of the handler declared within the block. Therefore, statements associated with handlers cannot use `ITERATE` or `LEAVE` to reference block labels that contain handler declarations.

In the following example, the `REPEAT` block has a `retry_lable` label, and the `retry_lable` label is within the scope of the `IF` statement in the block, but it is not within the scope of the `CONTINUE` handler. Therefore, the reference of the `REPEAT` block to the `retry_lable` label is invalid and causes an error.

```sql
obclient> CREATE PROCEDURE proc1 ()
   BEGIN
     DECLARE n INT DEFAULT 10;
     retry_lable:
       REPEAT
         BEGIN
           DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLWARNING
             BEGIN
               ITERATE retry_lable;    # Invalid label
             END;
           IF n < 0 THEN
             LEAVE retry_lable;        # Valid label
           END IF;
           SET n = n - 1;
         END;
       UNTIL FALSE END REPEAT;
   END //

ERROR 1308 (42000): no matching label: retry_lable
```

You can adopt the following strategies to avoid referencing external labels in handlers:

* Use an `EXIT` handler to leave the block and place the cleanup statement in the handler body. If block cleanup is not required, the handler body contained in the `BEGIN ... END` block can be empty. Here is an example:

   ```sql
   DECLARE EXIT HANDLER FOR SQLWARNING
     BEGIN
       block cleanup statements # Block cleanup statement
     END;
   ```


* To continue execution, set a status variable in the `CONTINUE` handler and check the status variable in the closed block to check whether the handler was called. The following example uses the `done` variable to achieve this:

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE PROCEDURE proc2()
      BEGIN
        DECLARE n INT DEFAULT 10;
        DECLARE done INT DEFAULT FALSE;
        retry_lable:
          REPEAT
            BEGIN
              DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLWARNING
                BEGIN
                  SET done = TRUE;
                END;
              IF done OR n < 0 THEN
                LEAVE retry_lable;
              END IF;
              SET n = n - 2;
            END;
          UNTIL FALSE END REPEAT;
      END;//
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```
