| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# SIGNAL


The `SIGNAL` statement returns errors. The `SIGNAL` statement provides error information to a handler, an external party of the application, or a client. In addition, it provides control over error characteristics, including the error codes, `SQLSTATE` values, and messages.

## Syntax and parameters

If you do not use a `SIGNAL` statement, use other methods to return errors. For example, you can deliberately reference a table that does not exist to cause the routine to return an error.

You do not need any privilege to execute `SIGNAL` statements.

The syntax of the `SIGNAL` statement is as follows:

```sql
SIGNAL condition_value
    [SET signal_information_item
    [, signal_information_item] ...]

condition_value: {
    SQLSTATE [VALUE] sqlstate_value
  | condition_name
}

signal_information_item:
    condition_information_item_name = simple_value_specification

condition_information_item_name: {
    MESSAGE_TEXT
  | MYSQL_ERRNO

}
```


The `condition_value` clause in the `SIGNAL` statement indicates the error value to be returned. It can be an `SQLSTATE` value (a 5-character string literal) or a `condition_name` field that references a naming condition previously defined in `DECLARE ... CONDITION`. For more information, see [DECLARE ... CONDITION](../900.pl-exception-handling-statement-mysql/200.declare-condition-mysql.md).

An `SQLSTATE` value can indicate an error, a warning, or "not found". The first two characters of this value indicate the error class. Some signal values cause statements to terminate. For more information, see **Effects of signals on handlers, cursors, and statements**.

Do not use a `SQLSTATE` value that starts with "00" in the `SIGNAL` statement, because such a value indicates success and is invalid for sending an error signal. This rule applies to a `SQLSTATE` value no matter whether it is specified directly in the `SIGNAL` statement or specified in the naming condition referenced by the statement. If the value is invalid, a `Bad SQLSTATE` error occurs.

To signal a generic `SQLSTATE` value, use '45000', which indicates an "unhandled user-defined exception".

The `SIGNAL` statement can contain a `SET` clause, which is optional. This clause can contain multiple signal items separated with commas and located in a list of `condition_information_item_name = simple_value_specification` assignments.

Each `condition_information_item_name` item can be specified only once in the `SET` clause. Otherwise, the following error occurs: `Duplicate condition information item`.

You can use stored procedures or function parameters, stored program local variables declared by using the `DECLARE` statement, user-defined variables, system variables, or literals to specify valid `simple_value_specification` indicators.

For more information about `condition_information_item_name` values, see **Signal condition information items**.

In the following example, the stored procedure `proc()` signals an error or a warning based on the value of the input parameter `pval`.

```sql
CREATE PROCEDURE proc(pval INT)
BEGIN
  DECLARE psign CONDITION FOR SQLSTATE '45000';
  IF pval = 0 THEN
    SIGNAL SQLSTATE '01000';
  ELSEIF pval = 1 THEN
    SIGNAL SQLSTATE '45000'
      SET MESSAGE_TEXT = 'An error occurred';
  ELSEIF pval = 2 THEN
    SIGNAL psign
      SET MESSAGE_TEXT = 'An error occurred';
  ELSE
    SIGNAL SQLSTATE '01000'
      SET MESSAGE_TEXT = 'A warning occurred', MYSQL_ERRNO = 1001;
    SIGNAL SQLSTATE '45000'
      SET MESSAGE_TEXT = 'An error occurred', MYSQL_ERRNO = 1002;
  END IF;
END;
```

If the value of `pval` is 0, `proc()` signals a warning, because the value of `SQLSTATE` starts with '01'. This warning does not terminate the procedure. After the procedure returns the result, you can run `SHOW WARNINGS` to check it.

If the value of `pval` is 1, `proc()` signals an error and sets the `MESSAGE_TEXT` condition information item. The error terminates the procedure and returns text that contains the error message.

If the value of `pval` is 2, `proc()` signals the same error, although in this case the `SQLSTATE` value is specified by using the named condition.

If `pval` is of any other value, `proc()` first signals a warning and then sets the message text and error code condition information items. This warning does not terminate the procedure. Therefore, `proc()` continues with the execution, and then signals an error. This error terminates the procedure. The message text and error code set by the warning are replaced by the values set by the error, which are returned along with the error message.

`SIGNAL` is usually used in stored programs. However, you can also use it as an extension beyond the handler context. For example, when you call the `mysql` client program, you can enter any of the following statements at the prompt:

```sql
SIGNAL SQLSTATE '66666';

CREATE TRIGGER trg BEFORE INSERT ON tbl
  FOR EACH ROW SIGNAL SQLSTATE '66666';
```


### Execution rules of SIGNAL

`SIGNAL` is executed as per the following rules:

* If the `SIGNAL` statement indicates a specific `SQLSTATE` value, the value is used to indicate the specified condition. Here is an example:

   ```sql
   CREATE PROCEDURE proc(divisor INT)
   BEGIN
     IF divisor = 0 THEN
       SIGNAL SQLSTATE '22012';
     END IF;
   END;
   ```


* If the `SIGNAL` statement uses a named condition, the condition must be declared within a scope applicable to the `SIGNAL` statement, and the condition must be defined by using a `SQLSTATE` value rather than an error code. If the specified condition does not fall within the scope of the `SIGNAL` statement, the "Undefined CONDITION" error is returned. Here is an example:

   ```sql
   CREATE PROCEDURE proc(divisor INT)
   BEGIN
     DECLARE div_by_zero CONDITION FOR SQLSTATE '22012';
     IF divisor = 0 THEN
       SIGNAL div_by_zero;
     END IF;
   END;
   ```


* If the `SIGNAL` statement references a named condition defined by using an error code rather than a `SQLSTATE` value, the error "SIGNAL/RESIGNAL can only use a CONDITION defined with SQLSTATE" is returned. The following statement returns such an error, because the naming condition is associated with the error code:

   ```sql
   DECLARE no_table_found CONDITION FOR 1051;
   SIGNAL no_table_found;
   ```

* If the condition with the specified name is declared multiple times in different scopes, the declaration within the local scope is applied.

   In the following example, if `divisor` is 0, the first `SIGNAL` statement is executed. The declaration of the innermost `one_error` condition applies and triggers `SQLSTATE '22012'`. If `divisor` is not 0, the second `SIGNAL` statement is executed. The declaration of the outermost `one_error` condition applies and triggers `SQLSTATE '45000'`.

   ```sql
   CREATE PROCEDURE proc(divisor INT)
   BEGIN
     DECLARE one_error CONDITION FOR SQLSTATE '45000';
     IF divisor = 0 THEN
       BEGIN
         DECLARE one_error CONDITION FOR SQLSTATE '22012';
         SIGNAL one_error;
       END;
     END IF;
     SIGNAL one_error;
   END;
   ```

* Signals can be raised in an exception handler. In the following example, `CALL proc()` gets the `DROP TABLE` statement. No table named `no_table_found` exists, so the error handler is activated. The error handler destroys the original error ("no such table") and uses `SQLSTATE '99999'` and `An error occurred` to report the error.

   ```sql
   CREATE PROCEDURE proc()
   BEGIN
     DECLARE EXIT HANDLER FOR SQLEXCEPTION
     BEGIN
       SIGNAL SQLSTATE VALUE '99999'
         SET MESSAGE_TEXT = 'An error occurred';
     END;
     DROP TABLE no_table_found;
   END;
   ```


## Signal condition information items

The following table lists the names of diagnostics area condition information items that can be set in a `SIGNAL` or `RESIGNAL` statement. All items are standard SQL except for `MYSQL_ERRNO`, which is a MySQL extension.


| Item name | Data type |
|--------------------|-------------------|
| MESSAGE_TEXT | VARCHAR(64) |
| MYSQL_ERRNO | SMALLINT UNSIGNED |



The character set of character items is UTF-8. Condition information items cannot be assigned `NULL` in `SIGNAL` statements.

A `SIGNAL` statement always specifies the `SQLSTATE` value directly, or indirectly by referencing a condition defined by the `SQLSTATE` value. The first two characters of the `SQLSTATE` value indicates its class, which determines the default value of the condition information item, as shown in the following table.


| Class of SQLSTATE values | Description |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Class = `'00'` (success) | Invalid. `SQLSTATE` values starting with '00' indicate success and are invalid for `SIGNAL` statements.  |
| Class = `'01'` (warning) | `MESSAGE_TEXT='Unhandled user-defined warning condition';` `MYSQL_ERRNO=ER_SIGNAL_WARN` |
| Class = `'02'` (not found) | `MESSAGE_TEXT='Unhandled user-defined not found condition';` `MYSQL_ERRNO=ER_SIGNAL_NOT_FOUND` |
| Class \> `'02'` (exception) | `MESSAGE_TEXT='Unhandled user-defined exception condition';` `MYSQL_ERRNO=ER_SIGNAL_EXCEPTION` |



The error value obtained after `SIGNAL` execution is the `SQLSTATE` value raised by the `SIGNAL` statement and `MESSAGE_TEXT` and `MYSQL_ERRNO` items. These values can be obtained from the following C API:

* `mysql_sqlstate()` returns the `SQLSTATE` value.

* `mysql_errno()` returns the `MYSQL_ERRNO` value.

* `mysql_error()` returns the `MESSAGE_TEXT` value.


At the SQL level, the `Code` and `Message` columns in the output of the `SHOW WARNINGS` and `SHOW ERRORS` statements indicate the values of `MYSQL_ERRNO` and `MESSAGE_TEXT`, respectively.

To retrieve information from the diagnostics area, use the `GET DIAGNOSTICS` statement. For more information, see [GET DIAGNOSTICS](../900.pl-exception-handling-statement-mysql/400.get-diagnostics-mysql.md).

## Effect of signals on handlers, cursors and statements

Signals of different classes have different effects on statement execution, as shown in the following table. You can determine the severity of an error based on its class. The purpose of the `SIGNAL` statement is to explicitly raise a user-generated error, so the corresponding signals are not ignored. The value of the `sql_mode` system variable is ignored, especially in strict mode.


| Class of SQLSTATE values | Description |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------|
| Class = `'00'` (success) | Invalid. `SQLSTATE` values starting with '00' indicate success and are invalid for `SIGNAL` statements.  |
| Class = `'01'` (warning) | The `SHOW WARNINGS` statement shows the signal. The `SQLWARNING` handler captures the signal.  The `RETURN` statement that causes the function to return clears the diagnostics area, so stored functions cannot return a warning. This statement clears any warnings that may exist and resets `warning_count` to 0.  |
| Class = `'02'` (not found) | The `NOT FOUND` handler captures the signal. It has no effect on cursors. If the signal is not processed in a stored function, in other words, no handler uses the `DECLARE ... HANDLER` statement to define the issued `SQLSTATE` value, the statement ends.  |
| Class \> `'02'` (exception) | The `SQLEXCEPTION` handler captures the signal. If the signal is not processed in a stored function, in other words, no handler uses the `DECLARE ... HANDLER` statement to define the issued `SQLSTATE` value, the statement ends.  |
| Class = `'40'` | Treated as a general exception.  |


