| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Effective scope of an exception handler

A stored program can include a handler to be called when certain conditions occur. The applicability of each handler depends on its position in the program definition and the one or more conditions that it handles.

## Effective scope of an exception handler and related rules

The effective scope of a handler in OceanBase Database follows the subsequent rules:

* A handler declared in a `BEGIN ... END` block applies only to SQL statements after the handler declaration in the block. A handler cannot process a condition that is raised by itself, nor can it declare other handlers in the block. In the following example, handlers `h1` and `h2` are within the effective scope of the conditions raised by statements `st1` and `st2`, but are not within the effective scope of the condition raised in the body of `h1` or `h2`.

   ```sql
   BEGIN -- External block
     DECLARE EXIT HANDLER FOR ...;  -- Handler h1
     DECLARE EXIT HANDLER FOR ...;  -- Handler h2
     st1;
     st2;
   END;
   ```


* A handler takes effect only within the scope of the block that declares it, and cannot be activated by conditions that occur outside the block. In the following example, handler `h1` is valid within the scope of the `st1` statement in the internal block, but is invalid for the `st2` statement in the external block.

   ```sql
   BEGIN -- External block
     BEGIN -- Internal block
       DECLARE EXIT HANDLER FOR ...;  -- Handler h1
       st1;
     END;
     st2;
   END;
   ```


* A handler can either be specific or generic. Specific handlers can handle error codes, `SQLSTATE` values, and condition names. Generic handlers can handle conditions of the `SQLWARNING`, `SQLEXCEPTION`, or `NOT FOUND` class. Condition specificity is associated with condition precedence.

   You can declare multiple handlers with different characteristics in different scopes. For example, the external block may have a specific error code handler, while the internal block may have a generic `SQLWARNING` handler. Alternatively, one block may have both handlers for specific error codes and handlers for the generic `SQLWARNING` class.


The activation of a handler depends not only on its own scope and condition values, but also on other handlers. When a condition in the stored program occurs, the server searches for applicable handlers in the current scope, which is the current `BEGIN ... END` block. If no applicable handler is available, the server continues to search for the handler in the next outer scope (block). When the server finds one or more applicable handlers within the specified scope, it selects a handler based on the condition precedence. The condition precedence is as follows:

* Error code handlers take precedence over `SQLSTATE` value handlers.

* `SQLSTATE` value handlers take precedence over `SQLWARNING`, `SQLEXCEPTION`, and `NOT FOUND` handlers.

* `SQLEXCEPTION` handlers take precedence over `SQLWARNING` handlers.

* A stored program can have multiple applicable handlers with the same priority. For example, a statement can generate multiple warnings with different error codes, each with an error-specific handler. In this case, the handler that the server selects to activate is uncertain and may change depending on the situation.


If multiple applicable handlers are in different scopes, the handler in the local scope takes precedence over handlers in external scopes, even over those with a priority higher than the specified condition.

If no suitable handler is available when a condition occurs, the server takes the following actions according to the class of the condition:

* For an `SQLEXCEPTION` condition, the stored program terminates at the statement that raised the condition, which is similar to an `EXIT` handler. If the program is called by another stored program, the calling program follows its own rules to handle the condition.

* For an `SQLWARNING` condition, the program continues the procedure, which is similar to a `CONTINUE` handler.

* For a `NOT FOUND` condition, if the condition is raised normally, the program takes the `CONTINUE` action. If the condition is raised by a `SIGNAL` or `RESIGNAL` statement, the program takes the `EXIT` action.



## Examples

Examples 1 to 4 show how to apply handler selection rules.

The procedure in Example 1 contains two handlers. One is for specifying the `SQLSTATE` value ('42S02') when attempting to delete a non-existent table, and the other is for the generic `SQLEXCEPTION` class.

```sql
-- Example 1
CREATE PROCEDURE proc1()
BEGIN
  DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLSTATE '42S02'
    SELECT 'SQLSTATE handler was activated' AS msg;
  DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLEXCEPTION
    SELECT 'SQLEXCEPTION handler was activated' AS msg;

  DROP TABLE test.tbl1;
END;
```


In Example 1, both handlers declare in the same block and have the same scope. However, the `SQLSTATE` handler takes precedence over the `SQLEXCEPTION` handler. Therefore, if the `tbl1` table does not exist, the `DROP TABLE` statement raises a condition and thereby activates the `SQLSTATE` handler. A sample statement is as follows:

```sql
obclient> CALL proc1();
+--------------------------------+
| msg                            |
+--------------------------------+
| SQLSTATE handler was activated |
+--------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

In Example 2, the procedure contains two handlers the same as Example 1. In comparison with the `SQLSTATE` handler, the `DROP TABLE` statement and the `SQLEXCEPTION` handler are located in the internal block.

```sql
-- Example 2
CREATE PROCEDURE proc2()
BEGIN -- External block
    DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLSTATE '42S02'
      SELECT 'SQLSTATE handler was activated' AS msg;
  BEGIN -- Internal block
    DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLEXCEPTION
      SELECT 'SQLEXCEPTION handler was activated' AS msg;

    DROP TABLE test.tbl1; -- Occurs within the internal block
  END;
END;
```

In Example 2, the handler closer to the condition occurrence location is activated with priority. Therefore, the `SQLEXCEPTION` handler is activated, even if it is more generic than the `SQLSTATE` handler. A sample statement is as follows:

```sql
obclient> CALL proc2();
+------------------------------------+
| msg                                |
+------------------------------------+
| SQLEXCEPTION handler was activated |
+------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

In Example 3, a handler of the procedure is declared in a block within the scope of the `DROP TABLE` statement.

```sql
-- Example 3
CREATE PROCEDURE proc3()
BEGIN -- External block
  DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLEXCEPTION
    SELECT 'SQLEXCEPTION handler was activated' AS msg;
  BEGIN -- Internal block
    DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLSTATE '42S02'
      SELECT 'SQLSTATE handler was activated' AS msg;
  END;

  DROP TABLE test.tbl1; -- Occurs within the external block
END;
```

In Example 3, the `SQLEXCEPTION` handler is activated because the `SQLSTATE` handler is beyond the scope of the condition raised by the `DROP TABLE` statement. A sample statement is as follows:

```sql
obclient> CALL proc3();
+------------------------------------+
| msg                                |
+------------------------------------+
| SQLEXCEPTION handler was activated |
+------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

In Example 4, both handlers are declared in a block within the scope of the `DROP TABLE` statement.

```sql
-- Example 4
CREATE PROCEDURE proc4()
BEGIN -- External block
  BEGIN -- Internal block
    DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLEXCEPTION
      SELECT 'SQLEXCEPTION handler was activated' AS msg;
    DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLSTATE '42S02'
      SELECT 'SQLSTATE handler was activated' AS msg;
  END;

  DROP TABLE test.tbl1; -- Occurs within the external block
END;
```

In Example 4, neither handler is applicable, because they are not within the scope of the `DROP TABLE` statement. The condition raised by the statement is not handled and the procedure is terminated with an error. A sample statement is as follows:

```sql
obclient> CALL proc4();

ERROR 1051 (42S02): Unknown table 'test.tbl1'
```
