# Delete zones from a cluster

This topic describes how to scale in a cluster by deleting zones from the cluster.

## Considerations

This method applies only to a cluster with three or more zones. If a cluster has less than three zones, data consistency cannot be ensured after a zone is deleted.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>After a zone is deleted, all tenants using the zone are affected. Therefore, you must properly plan ahead to avoid the impact. This topic provides an example to describe how to delete a zone when only one tenant is affected. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

The resources in the cluster are excessive for the current load. For information about how to view the resource details of a cluster in OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), see [View the resource details of a cluster](../../../../2.basic-database-management/1.manage-clusters/10.view-the-resource-information-of-a-cluster.md).

## Delete zones from a cluster by using SQL statements

You can use SQL statements to delete zones from a cluster. For example, you can use this method to decrease the number of replicas from 5 to 3 for a tenant. You need to delete both zones and OBServer nodes from the relevant cluster.

Assume that the current cluster has five zones `z1`, `z2`, `z3`, `z4`, and `z5`, these zones are located in the same region, and that each zone has one OBServer node. The cluster has a user tenant named `tenant1`. The tenant information is as follows: `CREATE TENANT IF NOT EXISTS tenant1 CHARSET='utf8mb4', ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3','z4','z5'), PRIMARY_ZONE='z1,z2,z4', RESOURCE_POOL_LIST=('pool1')`. The distribution of replicas is as follows: `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5', resource_pool_list=('pool1')`. The distribution of resources in the resource pool is as follows: `CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 1, ZONE_LIST ('z1', 'z2', 'z3','z4', 'z5')`.

To meet business requirements, you need to reduce the number of replicas from 5 to 3 for `tenant1`. That is, you need to modify the locality to `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3`. The following example describes how to delete `z4` and `z5`, which are used only by the tenant `tenant1`.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Optional. If the tenant uses z4 or z5 as the primary zone, you must change the primary zone of this tenant.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER TENANT tenant_name PRIMARY_ZONE='z1,z2,z3';
   ```

3. Modify the locality of `tenant1` to delete replicas in z4:

   Based on the locality modification rule, you can delete only one zone at a time. For more information about the locality modification rule, see [Overview](../../../../4.replica-management/5.locality-management/1.locality-overview.md).

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4';

   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3';
   ```

4. Execute the following statements to stop `z4` and `z5`.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM STOP ZONE z4;

   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM STOP ZONE z5;
   ```

5. Remove the `z4` and `z5` zones from the `pool1` pool.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3');
   ```

6. Execute the following statement to delete the specified OBServer nodes from zones in the cluster.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>In this example, only the <code>tenant1</code> tenant uses the resources in <code>z4</code> and <code>z5</code>. If other tenants also use the resources in <code>z4</code> or <code>z5</code>, you must also perform steps 2 to 5 for these tenants. </p>
  </main>

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE SERVER 'xxx.xxx.x.xx4:2882';

obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE SERVER 'xxx.xxx.x.xx5:2882';
```

Execute the following statement to query existing OBServer nodes. If the preceding OBServer nodes are not included in the returned list, the delete operation is successful.

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_SERVERS;
```

7. Execute the following statement to delete the specified zones from the cluster.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE ZONE z4;

   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE ZONE z5;
   ```

   Execute the following statement to query existing zones. If the preceding zones are not included in the returned zone list, the delete operation is successful.

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_ZONES;
   ```

   The scale-in process is completed.
