# Create a user

This topic describes how to create a user.

## Privilege to create a user

You may need to create users and grant them privileges in OceanBase Database as needed. To create a user, you must have the `CREATE USER` privilege.

By default, only cluster and tenant administrators have the `CREATE USER` privilege. Other users can create a user only after they are granted the `CREATE USER` privilege. For more information, see [Modify user privileges](../200.permission-of-mysql-mode/500.modify-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Naming conventions for usernames

When you specify a name for a user, note the following:

* Username uniqueness in a tenant

   Usernames are unique within a tenant, but users in different tenants can have the same username. Therefore, a user is uniquely identified globally in the system in the `username@tenant name` format.

   In MySQL mode, to distinguish users in the system tenant from those in a user tenant, it is recommended to use a specific prefix for the username in the system tenant.

* Naming conventions

   * When you create a user through the OBClient or OceanBase Developer Center (ODC), the username cannot exceed 64 bytes in length.

   * When you create a user through the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console, the username must be 2 to 64 characters in length and start with a letter, and can contain letters, digits, and underscores (`_`).

## Create a user with the minimum database privileges by using an SQL statement

You can use the `CREATE USER` statement to create a user. Creating a user requires the system privilege `CREATE USER`. When creating a user, it is recommended to adhere to the principle of least privilege, which means that each user should only have the minimum privileges necessary to perform their tasks.

The SQL statement is as follows:

```sql
CREATE USER [IF NOT EXISTS] user_specification_list
    [REQUIRE {NONE | SSL | X509 | tls_option}];

user_specification_list:
    user_specification [, user_specification ...]

user_specification:
    user IDENTIFIED BY  'authstring'
  | user IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'hashstring'

tls_option:
 | CIPHER 'cipher'
 | ISSUER 'issuer'
 | SUBJECT 'subject'
```

where

* `IF NOT EXISTS`: If the username that is being created already exists and the `IF NOT EXISTS` clause is not specified, the system will report an error.

* `IDENTIFIED BY`: specifies a password for the user. This clause is optional.

   Note the following:

   * The password in the `user IDENTIFIED BY 'authstring'` clause is in plaintext. However, once the password is saved to the `mysql.user` table, the server will store it in ciphertext.

   * The password in the `user IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'authstring'` clause is in ciphertext.

* `REQUIRE`: specifies an encryption protocol for the user. Valid values: `NONE`, `SSL`, `X509`, and `tls_option`.

The following example shows how to create the `test2` user that has the minimum database privileges:

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to create a user named `test2`:

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE USER 'test2' IDENTIFIED BY '******';
   ```

3. Execute the following statement to grant the `test2` user the privilege to access all tables in the `db1` database:

   ```sql
   obclient> GRANT SELECT ON db1.* TO test2;
   ```

