# Modify user privileges

Modifying user privileges includes granting and revoking user privileges.

## Grant user privileges

Use the `GRANT` statement to grant user-level, database-level, or object privileges to a user.

### Prerequisites

You must have the `GRANT OPTION` privilege and the privileges to be granted. For example, if the `test1` user wants to grant the `SELECT` privilege on the `t1` table to the `test2` user, the `test1` user must have the `GRANT OPTION` privilege and the `SELECT` privilege on the `t1` table.

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../200.permission-of-mysql-mode/400.view-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md).

### Considerations

Before you grant a privilege, note the following:

* When you grant a privilege to a user, the user is automatically created if the user does not exist. However, if `sql_mode='no_auto_create_user'` is specified and `IDENTIFIED BY` is not used in the statement to specify a password, the user cannot be created directly.

* When granting multiple privileges to a user at the same time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* When granting a privilege to multiple users at the same time, separate the usernames with commas (,).

* If a user has been granted a privilege, the privilege takes effect only after the user is reconnected to OceanBase Database.

* OceanBase Database does not support the `CHANGE EFFECTIVE TENANT` statement for privilege control. Therefore, you can grant a privilege to all users in the `sys` tenant.

### Syntax for granting privileges

The syntax for granting privileges is as follows:

```sql
GRANT priv_type
    ON priv_level
    TO user_specification [, user_specification]...
     [WITH GRANT OPTION];

privilege_type:
      ALTER
    | CREATE
    | CREATE USER
    | CREATE VIEW
    | DELETE
    | DROP
    | GRANT OPTION
    | INDEX
    | INSERT
    | PROCESS
    | SELECT
    | SHOW DATABASES
    | SHOW VIEW
    | SUPER
    | UPDATE
    | USAGE
    | CREATE SYNONYM

priv_level:
      *
    | *.*
    | database_name.*
    | database_name.table_name
    | table_name
    | database_name.routine_name

user_specification:
user_name [IDENTIFIED BY [PASSWORD] 'password']
```

where

* `priv_type`: the type of the privilege to be granted. When you grant multiple privileges to a user at the same time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* `priv_level`: the level of the privilege to be granted. The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database provides the following three levels of privileges:

   * User level: Privileges at this level apply to all databases. `GRANT ... ON *.*` is used to grant user-level privileges.

   * Database level: Privileges at this level apply to all objects in a specified database. `GRANT ... ON db_name.*` is used to grant database-level privileges.

   * Table level: Privileges at this level apply to all columns in a specified table. `GRANT ... ON database_name.table_name` is used to grant table-level privileges.

* `user_specification`: the user to which one or more privileges are granted. If the user does not exist, the user is automatically created.

   When you grant a privilege to multiple users at the same time, separate the usernames with commas (,).

* `user_name IDENTIFIED BY 'password'` and `user_name IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'password'`: The password in the `user_name IDENTIFIED BY 'password'` clause is in plaintext. The password in the `user_name IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'password'` clause is in ciphertext.

* `WITH GRANT OPTION`: specifies whether the privileges can be delegated or revoked.

### Examples

* Grant user-level privileges

   User-level privileges are global privileges that apply to all databases. You can use `GRANT ... ON *.*` to grant user-level privileges.

   * To grant all privileges on all objects in all databases to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT ALL ON *.* TO test;
      ```

   * To grant the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on all tables in all databases to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON *.* TO test;
      ```

* Grant database-level privileges

   Database-level privileges are management privileges on all objects in a specified database. You can use `GRANT ... ON db_name.*` to grant database-level privileges.

   * To grant management privileges on all objects in the `db1` database to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT ALL ON db1.* TO test;
      ```

   * To grant the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on all tables in the `db1` database to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON db1.* TO test;
      ```

* Grant table-level privileges

   Table-level privileges are management privileges on a specified table in a specified database. You can use `GRANT ... ON db_name.tb1_name` to grant table-level privileges.

   * To grant the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on the `tb1_name` table in the `db1` database to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON db1.tb1_name TO test;
      ```

   * To grant management privileges on the `tb1_name` table in the `db1` database to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT ALL ON db1.tb1_name TO test;
      ```

For more information about the `GRANT` statement, see [GRANT](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/5500.grant-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Revoke user privileges

### Prerequisites

* You must have the `GRANT OPTION` privilege and the privileges to be revoked. For example, if the `test1` user wants to revoke the `SELECT` privilege on the t1 table from the test2 user, the `test1` user must have the `GRANT OPTION` privilege and the `SELECT` privilege on the `t1` table.

* To revoke the `ALL PRIVILEGES` and `GRANT OPTION` privileges, you must have the global `GRANT OPTION` privilege or the `UPDATE` and `DELETE` privileges on the table.

### Considerations

* When you revoke multiple privileges from a user at the same time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* When you revoke a privilege from multiple users at the same time, separate the usernames with commas (,).

* The revocation operation will not cascade. For example, if the `test1` user has granted some privileges to the `test2` user, revoking `test1`'s privileges will not also revoke `test2`'s corresponding privileges.

### Syntax for revoking privileges

The syntax for revoking privileges is as follows:

```sql
REVOKE priv_type
     ON priv_level
     FROM 'user_name';

priv_type:
      ALTER
    | CREATE
    | CREATE USER
    | CREATE VIEW
    | DELETE
    | DROP
    | GRANT OPTION
    | INDEX
    | INSERT
    | PROCESS
    | SELECT
    | SHOW DATABASES
    | SHOW VIEW
    | SUPER
    | UPDATE
    | USAGE

priv_level:
      *
    | *.*
    | database_name.*
    | database_name.table_name
    | table_name
    | database_name.routine_name
```

where

* `priv_type`: the type of the privilege to be revoked. When you revoke multiple privileges from a user at the same time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* `priv_level`: the level of the privilege to be revoked. The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database provides the following three levels of privileges:

   * User level: Privileges at this level apply to all databases. `REVOKE ... ON *.*` is used to revoke user-level privileges.

   * Database level: Privileges at this level apply to all objects in a specified database. `REVOKE ... ON db_name.*` is used to revoke database-level privileges.

   * Table level: Privileges at this level apply to all columns in a specified table. `REVOKE ... ON database_name.table_name` is used to revoke table-level privileges.

* `user_name`: the user whose privileges are to be revoked. When you revoke a privilege from multiple users at the same time, separate the usernames with commas (,).

### Examples

* Revoke user-level privileges

   To revoke the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on all tables in all databases from the `test` user, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient> REVOKE SELECT, INSERT ON *.* FROM 'test';
   ```

* Revoke database-level privileges

   To revoke the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on all tables in the `db1` database from the `test` user, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient> REVOKE SELECT, INSERT ON db1 FROM 'test';
   ```

* Revoke table-level privileges

   To revoke the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on the `tb1_name` table in the `db1` database from the `test` user, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient> REVOKE SELECT, INSERT ON db1.tb1_name FROM 'test';
   ```

For more information about the `REVOKE` statement, see [REVOKE](../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/7700.revoke-of-mysql-mode.md).
