Overview 
=============================



Introduction to CDC 
----------------------------------------



OceanBase Change Data Capture (CDC) helps you identify data that has changed since the last extraction. You can do many things with data provided by the CDC. For example, you can use the data to make historical databases or do near real-time caching. You can also provide the CDC data to message queues (MQs), so you can use MQs for analysis and auditing. 

OceanBase CDC has two components:

* liboblog

  

* oblogmsg

  




liboblog is a fundamental component of OceanBase CDC. oblogproxy is derived from liboblog and liboblog depends on oblogmsg. 



### liboblog 

liboblog provides incremental data of OceanBase Database in real time as a dynamic-link library. 

liboblog requests clogs, also known as redo logs, of each partition from OceanBase Database by using remote procedure calls (RPCs). It converts clogs to LogMsg data based on the table and column schemas that are obtained by querying OBServers. After liboblog aggregates data changes of each partition involved in a transaction, it provides the changed data of the transaction to an external process row by row. 

#### Application of liboblog 

liboblog provides the incremental transaction data of OceanBase Database to external processes. Processes can call liboblog for data synchronization and subscription. 

* Data synchronization: Data from OceanBase Database is synchronized to other homogeneous or heterogeneous databases for purposes such as logical migration, logical backup, and logical upgrade.

  

* Data subscription: Data from OceanBase Database is synchronized to message queues or data warehouses for purposes such as real-time computing, auditing, and monitoring.

  




#### Deployment and use 

For more information about how to deploy and use liboblog, see [Install and deploy liboblog](2.liboblog/1.deploy-and-use-liboblog/1.install-and-deploy-liboblog.md) and [liboblog development instructions](2.liboblog/1.deploy-and-use-liboblog/2.liboblog-development-instructions.md).

### oblogproxy 

As the proxy of liboblog, oblogproxy calls liboblog to obtain the incremental transaction data of OceanBase Database as a consumer. 

oblogproxy provides links for applications to access and manage real-time incremental data logs of OceanBase Database. 

For more information about how to deploy and use oblogproxy, see [Use the source code to build an oblogproxy](3.oblogproxy/1.install-and-deploy-oblogproxy/1.use-source-code-to-build-an-oblogproxy.md) and [Use the installation package to install and deploy an oblogproxy](3.oblogproxy/1.install-and-deploy-oblogproxy/2.install-and-deploy-oblogproxy-by-using-the-installation-package.md).
**Note**

You can use Canal and oblogproxy to synchronize data from OceanBase Database to MySQL in real time. For more information, see [Synchronize data from OceanBase Database to MySQL](../../7.developer-guide/5.migrate-data-to-oceanbase-database/4.synchronize-data-from-oceanbase-database-to-mysql.md).

### oblogmsg 

oblogmsg is a message format used by liboblog, the incremental data collection module of OceanBase Database, to export incremental data. oblogmsg supports writing incremental data of different types in OceanBase Database. It also supports data serialization and deserialization. 

For more information about how to install and deploy oblogmsg, see [Installation and deployment](4.oblogmsg/1.install-and-deploy-oblogmsg.md).









