Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant through OBClient 
=============================================================================



OceanBase Client (OBClient) is a command-line client for OceanBase. It enables you to connect to MySQL tenants of OceanBase. 

### Procedure: 

1. Open a command-line terminal.

   

2. Specify parameters for OBClient in the following format:

   




```javascript
$ obclient -hxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -ur***@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -p********* -c -A oceanbase
```


**Note**



* -h: Specifies an IP address to connect to OceanBase Database, which is usually an OBProxy address.

  

* -u: Specifies the connection account of the tenant. Supported formats: User name@Tenant name#Cluster name or Cluster name:Tenant name:User name. 

  

* -P: Specifies the OceanBase Database connection port, which is also the listening port of OBProxy. The default value is 2883. You can customize the value as required.

  

* -p: Specifies the account password. For security reasons, you do not need to specify this parameter. In that case, you will be prompted to enter a password later. The password is invisible.

  

* -c: Sends comments in SQL statements to the database.

  

* -A: Specifies that OceanBase Database does not obtain all table information when you connect to the database to ensure the fastest logon.

  

* oceanbase: The name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to a business database.

  




3. After the connection is established, the following command-line prompt is displayed by default:

   




```javascript
obclient>
```



4. To exit the OceanBase CLI terminal, enter exit and press Enter, or press Ctrl+D. 

   The following example shows how to connect to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase through OBClient.
   




```javascript
$obclient -hxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -ur***@obmysql#obdemo -P2883 -p********* -c -A oceanbase
obclient: [Warning] Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
Welcome to the OceanBase monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your OceanBase connection id is 64621
Server version: 5.6.25 OceanBase 2.2.20 (...) (Built Aug 10 2019 15:27:33)

<Omitted>

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient> select sysdate();
+---------------------+
| sysdate()                  |
+---------------------+
| 2020-04-01 21:53:22 |
+---------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

obclient> exit
Bye
```



