# Modify the configuration file

Before you deploy ODC, you must enter the version information of the ODC Docker container in the OAT configuration file.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the server where OCP is installed as the `root` user.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
     <h4>Note</h4>
     <p>During OCP installation, the user and password information is generated locally. </p>
   </main>

2. Open the `obcluster.conf` configuration file in the `/root/t-oceanbase-antman` directory and modify the ODC parameters in the file.

   Based on the environment and version information, modify the following three parameters:

<ul>
   <li>odc_docker_image_package: the .tar package of the ODC image. </li>
   <li>ODC_image_REPO: the image repository of ODC. </li>
   <li> ODC_image_TAG: the tag of the ODC image. </li>
   </ul>

   By default, you do not need to modify other parameters:

<ul>
   <li>ODC_PORT: the port number of the ODC service. Default value: 8989. </li>
   <li>ODC_METADB_USER: the MetaDB user of ODC. Default value: root. </li>
   <li>ODC_METADB_TENANT: the MetaDB tenant of ODC. It is created in the OBCluster of OAT. </li>
   <li>ODC_METADB_DBNAME: the MetaDB database name of ODC. </li>
   <li>odc_container_name: the name of the ODC container. Default value: odc. </li>
   <li>odc_docker_cpus: the number of CPU cores allocated to the ODC container. Default value: 4C, indicating 4 cores. </li>
   <li>odc_docker_memory: the memory allocated to the ODC container. Default value: 8G, indicating 8 GB. </li>
   </ul>

   Example of modification:

   ```shell
   ############ Edit the basic configuration of ODC when you deploy ODC ############
   odc_docker_image_package=odc.tar.gz
   ODC_image_REPO=acs-reg.alipay.com/oceanbase/obodc
   ODC_image_TAG=2.0.1

   ############ Advanced configurations of ODC, which do not need to be modified/ODC ADVANCED SETTINGS ############
   ODC_PORT=8989
   ODC_METADB_USER=root
   ODC_METADB_TENANT=odc_meta
   ODC_METADB_DBNAME=odc
   odc_container_name=odc
   odc_docker_cpus=4
   odc_docker_memory=8G
   ```
