Tables without a primary key
============================

Primary key 
--------------------

A primary key is a group of columns that uniquely identify a row in a data table. A primary key must meet the following criteria:

* It cannot contain a NULL value or be empty.
* The values in the group of primary key columns must be unique within the entire table.
* The values of the primary key cannot be modified.

Tables with a primary key 
----------------------------------

In OceanBase Database, tables with a primary key must meet the following criteria:

* Each table can have at most one primary key column group.
* A primary key can contain at most 64 columns, and the total length of primary key data cannot exceed 16KB.

When a table with a primary key is created, a globally unique index will be created for the primary key columns to quickly locate rows through the primary key.

The following SQL statement is an example that creates a table named emp_table, with emp_id as its primary key.

```javascript
CREATE TABLE emp_table (
  emp_id int PRIMARY KEY,
  emp_name varchar(100),
  emp_age int NOT NULL
);
```

Tables without a primary key 
-------------------------------------

A table with no primary key specified is a table without a primary key. Due to the lack of a global index, ROWID is often used to quickly locate a row in a table with no primary key.

The following SQL statement is an example that creates a table without a primary key named student_table.

```javascript
CREATE TABLE student_table (
  student_id int NOT NULL,
  student_name varchar(100),
  student_age int NOT NULL
);
```

In OceanBase Database, tables without a primary key are implemented with an auto-increment column as their hidden primary key.

Auto-increment columns in OceanBase Database are compatible with the auto-increment module in MySQL and satisfy the following rules:

* Globally unique across multiple partitions
* Continuous increase within a statement
* Values generated are larger than explicit insertion of users

The globally unique across multiple partitions characteristic of auto-increment columns are used to ensure the hidden primary key are unique.
