# OBLOADER & OBDUMPER

## What is OBLOADER?

OBLOADER is a client data import tool developed in Java. OBLOADER provides extensive command-line options that allow you to import database object definitions and table data to OceanBase Database in many complex scenarios. We recommend that you use OBLOADER along with OBDUMPER. However, in external services, OBLOADER can also import CSV files that are exported by third-party tools such as Navicat, MyDumper, and SQL Developer. OBLOADER fully exploits the features of the distributed OceanBase Database system. The tool is particularly optimized for import performance and stability, and is enhanced to provide more operation monitoring information, providing better user experience. 

OBLOADER mainly provides the following features:

* Allows you to import the DDL statements of database objects. 
* Allows you to import data files in the standard CSV or SQL format. 
* Allows you to import files where data is stored with a fixed length in bytes, files where data is split by a string, and files that store a mix of DDL and DML statements. 
* Allows you to configure rules that control data preprocessing and field mappings between files and tables for data import. 
* Supports features such as import speed limiting, memory explosion prevention, resumption after an interruption, and automatic retries. 
* Allows you to specify a log directory and store bad data and conflict data. 

## What is OBDUMPER?

OBDUMPER is a client data export tool developed in Java. You can use it to export data and the DDL statements of objects in OceanBase Database to files. 

OBDUMPER has the following advantages over other export tools such as MyDumper and SQL Developer:

* High performance: OBDUMPER supports multiple query strategies for different table definitions to ensure optimal data export performance. 
* More features: OBDUMPER provides various features, including data preprocessing, support for various data formats, and global consistent nonlocking export. 

OBDUMPER mainly provides the following features:

* Allows you to export the DDL statements of database objects. 

* Allows you to export table data to files in the CSV or SQL format. 

* Allows you to export data from some partitions of a partitioned table by specifying the partition names. 

* Allows you to specify global filters to export only the data that meets the specified conditions. 

* Allows you to configure data preprocessing rules to convert data before export. 

* Allows you to export data from a follower replica of an OceanBase cluster, which is different from a standby cluster.

* Allows you to export custom query result sets in the SQL, CSV, and CUT formats. 

* Ensures global consistency for the exported data by reading the snapshot version when tables are not locked.