| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | Oracle Mode |

# Manage DBLinks

OceanBase Database provides parameters for managing DBLinks. You can enable or disable the DBLink feature based on your business strategies and modify the reusability of connections to remote databases based on your business requirements. 

## Enable or disable the DBLink feature

You can specify the `enable_dblink` parameter to enable or disable the DBLink feature for a cluster. The default value is `True`. The value `True` indicates to enable the DBLink feature. The value `False` indicates to disable the DBLink feature. If you attempt to use the DBLink feature when this parameter is set to `False`, the `OB_OP_NOT_ALLOW` error will be returned, indicating that the operation is not allowed. 

For more information about the `enable_dblink` parameter, see [enable_dblink](../../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/6500.enable_dblink.md). 

Here is an example:

Log on to the `sys` tenant and specify whether to enable or disable the DBLink feature. 

* Enable the DBLink feature. 

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_dblink = True;
   ```

* Disable the DBLink feature. 

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>The <code>enable_dblink</code> parameter takes effect on a cluster. You do need to disable the DBLink feature unless otherwise required. </p>
    </main>

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_dblink = False;
   ```

## Configure the reusability of connections to remote databases over DBLinks

You can specify the hidden parameter `_enable_dblink_reuse_connection` to control the reusability of connections over DBLinks. The value `True` indicates to allow you to reuse the connection to a remote database within the same session to improve efficiency and performance. In this case, the connection is a persistent connection. When the network environment is unstable or abnormal, you can set this parameter to `False` to require that a new connection be established for each access to the remote database to avoid connection errors. In this case, the connection is a short-lived connection. 

| Attribute | Description |
|----------|----------|
| Parameter type | Integer |
| Default value | `1`, which indicates to enable reuse of connections.  |
| Value range | `0` or `1`. <ul><li>`1`: indicates to enable reuse of connections. </li><li>`0`: indicates to disable reuse of connections. </li></ul> |
| Effective mode | Immediate |
| Level | Tenant level |

Here is an example:

* Execute the following statement in a user tenant to disable reuse of connections over a DBLink in a session. 

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET "_enable_dblink_reuse_connection" = 0;
   ```

* Execute the following statement in a user tenant to enable reuse of connections over a DBLink in a session. 

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM SET "_enable_dblink_reuse_connection" = 1;
   ```
