# Install and configure OCI

When an Oracle tenant in OceanBase Database needs to read and write data from a remote Oracle database through DBLink, it is necessary to install and configure the Oracle Call Interface (OCI) library.

## Procedure

For OceanBase Database V4.2.1 and later, when you use the DBLink feature to access a remote Oracle database, refer to this documentation and configure OCI 12.2 on all OBServer nodes in the cluster.

The following example describes how to install and configure an OCI library on a single OBServer node.

1. Click [here](https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/instant-client/linux-x86-64-downloads.html#license-lightbox) to go to the official website of OCI and download the OCI library of the corresponding version.

2. Log on to the OBServer node as the `admin` user, copy the downloaded RPM package to the OBServer node, and run the following command to install the OCI library:

   ```shell
   sudo rpm -ivh oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
   ```

3. After the OCI library is installed, run the following command to obtain the OCI installation directory:

   ```shell
   rpm -ql oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/bin/adrci
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/bin/genezi
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libclntsh.so.12.1
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libclntshcore.so.12.1
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libipc1.so
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libmql1.so
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libnnz12.so
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libocci.so.12.1
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libociei.so
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libocijdbc12.so
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/libons.so
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/liboramysql12.so
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/ojdbc8.jar
   /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/xstreams.jar
   ```

4. Configure the OCI library.

   1. Check whether a `lib` directory exists in the OceanBase Database installation directory. If not, create one and specify privileges required to access the `lib` directory.  If yes, skip this step.

      In this example, the OceanBase Database installation directory is `/home/admin/oceanbase`.

      ```shell
      sudo mkdir /home/admin/oceanbase/lib
      ```

      ```shell
      sudo chown admin:admin -R /home/admin/oceanbase/lib
      ```

   2. Go to the OCI installation directory.

      ```shell
      cd /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/
      ```

   3. Copy the following files from the OCI installation directory to the OceanBase Database installation directory: `libclntsh.so.12.1`, `libclntshcore.so.12.1`, `libipc1.so`, `libmql1.so`, `libnnz12.so`, `libociei.so`, and `libons.so`.

      You need to replace `$DIR` with the OceanBase Database installation directory, which is `/home/admin/oceanbase` in this example.

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>You need to rename the <code>libclntsh.so.12.1</code> file to <code>libclntsh.so</code>. </p>
      </main>

      ```shell
      cp libclntsh.so.12.1 $DIR/lib/libclntsh.so
      ```

      ```shell
      cp libclntshcore.so.12.1 $DIR/lib
      ```

      ```shell
      cp libipc1.so $DIR/lib
      ```

      ```shell
      cp libmql1.so $DIR/lib
      ```

      ```shell
      cp libnnz12.so $DIR/lib
      ```

      ```shell
      cp libociei.so $DIR/lib
      ```

      ```shell
      cp libons.so $DIR/lib
      ```

5. Specify the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` variable.

   To load the `libclntsh.so` file, OceanBase Database searches for dependent library files in the directory specified by the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` variable. Therefore, you need to set the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` variable to the directory of the OCI library.

   In this example, the OCI library is located in `home/admin/oceanbase/lib`. Here is a sample command:

   ```javascript
   export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/home/admin/oceanbase/lib:"
   ```

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>You must append a colon (:) to <code>/home/admin/oceanbase/lib</code> when you configure environment variables. </p>
   </main>

## Considerations

After you configure the OCI library on all OBServer nodes in the cluster, note that:

* OceanBase Database requires dependent libraries to load the OCI library. After you configure the OCI library, you can run the `ldd libclntsh.so` command in the directory of the OCI library, which is `home/admin/oceanbase/lib` in this example, to query other Linux libraries on which the OCI library depends. If the required dependent libraries do not exist, contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

   ```shell
   ldd libclntsh.so
   ```

* In general, you do not need to restart the OBServer node after the OCI library is configured. However, if an error message is returned and indicates that OCI is not found, you need to restart the OBServer node.
