|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Compatibility modes

OceanBase Database supports both MySQL- and Oracle-compatible tenants in a system. You may select the MySQL or Oracle compatibility mode when you create a tenant. After you create a tenant, you cannot change its compatibility mode. All its data types, SQL functions, and views are in line with the MySQL or Oracle mode that you selected.

<main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

## MySQL mode

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database is designed to reduce the cost of business system transformation when migrating from MySQL Database to OceanBase Database. It allows database designers, developers, and administrators to get a quick start with OceanBase Database with the knowledge and experience they gained from using MySQL Database. The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database is compatible with most features and syntaxes in MySQL 5.7, including full compatibility with MySQL 5.7 and partial compatibility with JSON functions in version 8.0. Applications based on MySQL Database can smoothly migrate to OceanBase Database.

## Oracle mode

OceanBase Database has supported Oracle compatibility mode since V2.x.x. The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database aims to reduce the cost of business system transformation when migrating from Oracle Database to OceanBase Database. It allows database designers, developers, and administrators to get a quick start with OceanBase Database with the knowledge and experience they gained from using Oracle Database. The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database supports a majority of Oracle syntax and procedural language features. This helps implement automatic migration for most Oracle-based business after minor adjustments.