| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# ALTER PROCEDURE

You can use the `ALTER PROCEDURE` statement to change one or more characteristics of a stored procedure.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ALTER PROCEDURE proc_name [characteristic ...]

characteristic: {
    COMMENT 'string'
  | LANGUAGE SQL
  | { CONTAINS SQL | NO SQL | READS SQL DATA | MODIFIES SQL DATA }
  | SQL SECURITY { DEFINER | INVOKER }
}
```


The `ALTER PROCEDURE` statement cannot change the parameters or body of a stored procedure. To make such changes, you must use the `DROP PROCEDURE` statement to drop the procedure and then use the `CREATE PROCEDURE` statement to recreate the procedure.

You must have the `ALTER PROCEDURE` privilege on the procedure. By default, OceanBase Database automatically grants the privilege to the creator of the function.

The following characteristics provide information about how the routine uses data:

* `CONTAINS SQL` indicates that the routine does not contain data read/write statements. This is the default value. For example, `SET@x=1` or `DO RELEASE_LOCK('abc')` will be executed but it does not read or write data.

* `NO SQL` indicates that the routine does not contain SQL statements.

* `READS SQL DATA` indicates that the routine contains data read statements such as `SELECT` but does not contain data write statements.

* `MODIFIES SQL DATA` indicates that the routine contains statements that may write data, such as `INSERT` or `DELETE`.

`SQL SECURITY` can be set to `DEFINER` or `INVOKER` to specify whether the routine is executed by using the privileges of the specified account that has the privileges to access the database associated with the routine, or by using the privileges of the invoker. The default value is `DEFINER`. To call a routine, you must have the `EXECUTE` privilege on the routine.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> ALTER PROCEDURE proc_name LANGUAGE SQL READS SQL DATA  SQL SECURITY INVOKER COMMENT 'Example';
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
