# CREATE TRIGGER

You can use the `CREATE TRIGGER` statement to create a trigger. A trigger is a database object associated with a table. The trigger fires when a specified event occurs in the table.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CREATE
    [DEFINER = user]
    TRIGGER [IF NOT EXISTS] trigger_name
    trigger_time trigger_event
    ON table_name FOR EACH ROW
    [trigger_order]
    trigger_body

trigger_time: { BEFORE | AFTER }

trigger_event: { INSERT | UPDATE | DELETE }

trigger_order: { FOLLOWS | PRECEDES } other_trigger_name

```

The `table_name` parameter specifies the table with which the trigger is associated. The table must not be a temporary table. You cannot associate a trigger with a temporary table or view.

Trigger names exist in the namespace of the schema. Therefore, each trigger must have a unique name in the schema. Triggers in different schemas can have the same name.

`IF NOT EXISTS` avoids errors caused by creating triggers with the same name in a table in the same schema.

The `CREATE TRIGGER` statement requires that the table associated with the trigger have the `TRIGGER` privilege. If the `DEFINER` clause is used, the required privileges depend on the value of `user`.

`trigger_time` specifies whether the trigger fires before or after each row is modified. Valid values are `BEFORE` and `AFTER`. The basic check on column values is performed before the trigger fires. Therefore, you cannot use the `BEFORE` trigger to convert column values that do not meet the data type into valid values.

`trigger_event` specifies the type of operation that fires the trigger. Valid values:

* `INSERT`: The trigger fires each time a new row is inserted into the table. For example, the trigger fires when you use the `INSERT`, `LOAD DATA`, or `REPLACE` statement to insert data into the table.

* `UPDATE`: The trigger fires each time when a row is modified. For example, the trigger fires when you use the `UPDATE` statement to update a row.

* `DELETE`: The trigger fires each time when a row is deleted from the table. For example, the trigger fires when you use the `DELETE` or `REPLACE` statement to delete a row from the table. The trigger does not fire when you use the `DROP TABLE` or `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement. The `DELETE` trigger does not fire when a partition is dropped from the table.


`trigger_event` specifies a table operation type, rather than the literal type of the SQL statements that can fire the trigger. For example, the `INSERT` trigger can be fired both by the `INSERT` statement and the `LOAD DATA` statement. This is because both of them can insert rows into the table.

You can define multiple triggers for tables with the same trigger event and operation time. For example, a table can have two `BEFORE UPDATE` triggers. By default, triggers with the same trigger event and operation time fire based on their creation sequence.

The `trigger_order` clause specifies the firing sequence of triggers with the same trigger event and operation time by using the `FOLLOWS` and `PRECEDES` keywords. The `FOLLOWS` keyword indicates that a new trigger will fire after the current trigger. The `PRECEDES` keyword indicates that a new trigger will fire before the current trigger.

`trigger_body` specifies the statement to be executed when the trigger fires. To execute multiple statements, use the `BEGIN ... END` compound statement.

In the body of a trigger, you can use aliases `OLD` and `NEW` to reference columns in the subject table that is associated with the trigger. `OLD.column_name` indicates a column of the row to be updated or deleted. `NEW.column_name` indicates a column of a new row to be inserted or an existing row after it is updated. A trigger cannot use `NEW.col_name` or `OLD.column_name` to reference generated columns.

The `DEFINER` clause specifies the account used for checking the access privileges when the trigger fires. If the `DEFINER` clause exists, you must set `user` to an account in the `'user_name'@'host_name'` format, such as `'admin'@'oblocalhost'`, or to the account obtained by using the `CURRENT_USER()` function. By default, if the `DEFINER` clause is omitted, the definer is the user who executes the `CREATE TRIGGER` statement. This is equivalent to `DEFINER = CURRENT_USER`.

The `DEFINER` user is involved when trigger privileges are checked.

* The user who creates the trigger by using the `CREATE TRIGGER` statement must have the `TRIGGER` privilege.

* When the trigger fires, privileges are checked based on the `DEFINER` user. This user must have the following privileges:

   * The `TRIGGER` privilege on the subject table.

   * The `SELECT` privilege on the subject table if table columns are referenced by using `OLD.col_name` or `NEW.col_name` in the trigger body.

   * The `UPDATE` privilege on the subject if table columns are assigned values by using `SET NEW.col_name = value` in the trigger body.

   * Other privileges required by statements executed by the trigger.


In the trigger body, the `CURRENT_USER()` function is used to indicate that the account used for privilege check when the trigger fires is the `DEFINER` user but not the user whose action fires the trigger.

For examples of creating triggers, see [Triggers](../200.storage-object-mysql/500.pl-trigger-mysql.md).
