# Upload installation packages

This topic describes how to upload the installation packages of OceanBase products to the server where OceanBase Admin Toolkit (OAT) is installed.

Before you use OAT to deploy OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), OceanBase Migration Service (OMS), OceanBase Developer Center (ODC), or OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP), you must upload the product installation packages to the server where OAT is installed. The installation packages can be .tar or .tar.gz image files.

After you install OAT, you need to upload the installation packages to the `/oat/data_dir/images` directory.

To obtain installation packages of the required versions, contact OceanBase Technical Support.

* To deploy OCP, you must upload the OCP Docker image and the OBServer Docker image to the server where OAT is installed.

   In the following commands, `oat_server` indicates the IP address of the server where OAT is installed.

   ```shell
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./ocp.tar <oat_server>:/oat/data_dir/images/ocp.tar
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./observer.tar <oat_server>:/oat/data_dir/images/observer.tar
   ```

* To deploy ODC, you must upload an ODC image to the server where OAT is installed.

   In the following command, `oat_server` indicates the IP address of the server where OAT is installed.

   ```shell
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./odc.tar <oat_server>:/oat/data_dir/images/odc.tar
   ```

* To deploy OMS, you need to upload the images of OMS and InfluxDB to the server where OAT is installed.

   In the following commands, `oat_server` indicates the IP address of the server where OAT is installed.

   ```shell
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./oms.tar <oat_server>:/oat/data_dir/images/oms.tar
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./influxdb_1.8.tar <oat_server>:/oat/data_dir/images/influxdb_1.8.tgz
   ```

* To deploy ODP, you need to upload the images of the ODP console and ODP server to the server where OAT is installed.

   In the following commands, `oat_server` indicates the IP address of the server where OAT is installed.

   ```shell
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./console.tar <oat_server>:/oat/data_dir/images/console.tar
   [root@hostname /]# scp ./server.tar <oat_server>:/oat/data_dir/odpserver/server.tar
   ```
