# Configure scheduled major compactions

You can specify a point in time to trigger daily major compactions.

## Prerequisites

Before a major compaction is triggered, make sure that global major compaction is enabled. Global major compaction is controlled by the cluster-level parameter `enable_major_freeze`. The default value is `True`, which specifies to enable global major compaction.

If global major compaction is disabled for the current cluster, perform the following steps to enable this feature.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Verify whether global major compaction is enabled.

   ```sql
   obclient> SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'enable_major_freeze';
   ```

3. If global major compaction is not enabled, execute the following statement to enable the feature.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_major_freeze='True';
   ```

   For more information about the `enable_major_freeze` parameter, see [enable_major_freeze](../../../../5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/72.enable_major_freeze.md).

## Conditions for triggering a scheduled major compaction

When the system time on a day reaches the specified point in time, a major compaction is automatically triggered. You can set the `major_freeze_duty_time` parameter to specify the point in time that triggers daily major compactions or modify the point in time in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console. By default, a major compaction is triggered at `02:00` on each day.

For more information about the `major_freeze_duty_time` parameter and other major compaction parameters, see [Modify major compaction settings](../2.merge-management/7.modify-a-merge-configuration.md).

## Use an SQL statement to specify the point in time at which daily major compactions are triggered

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to modify the point in time at which daily major compactions are triggered:

   * Modify the point in time at which daily major compactions are triggered for all tenants

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET major_freeze_duty_time='01:00';
      ```

   * Modify the point in time at which daily major compactions are triggered for specified tenants

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET major_freeze_duty_time='01:00' TENANT=tenant1，tenant2;
      ```

## References

* [Automatically trigger a major compaction](2.automatic-merge-triggering.md)

* [Manually initiate a major compaction](4.manually-trigger-a-merge.md)

* [Manually control a major compaction](5.manually-control-a-merge.md)

* [View the major compaction process](5.view-merge-process.md)
