# Version rules

This topic describes the version rules of OceanBase Database.

With continuous iteration and optimization of OceanBase Database, new versions will be released from time to time. Different versions of OceanBase Database may vary greatly in features. Therefore, you must identify your database version to obtain accurate document information.

The versions of OceanBase Database are defined in the V.x.y.z.f format.

* x indicates a major version, which generally involves an architectural upgrade or a release of major features.

* y indicates a planned iteration version, which involves an update or optimization of major features in a normal iteration plan.

* z indicates an updated version, which involves a few updates in features and fixes known issues.

* f indicates a patch upgrade version. It is in the fourth place and suffixed to form a later version number that identifies updates in features and fixed issues.

## Check the version of your OceanBase Database

You can view the current version of your OceanBase Database from a view or by specifying the version() keyword in an SQL statement.

Generally, you can connect to your OceanBase Database by using an OBClient or a MySQL client to view the database version. You can also query the database version in the following ways.

### Check the version of your OceanBase Database (MySQL mode)

Log on as the administrator and run the following command to view the database version:

```sql
obclient> SELECT version();
+-----------+
| version() |
+-----------+
| 4.0.0.0   |
+-----------+
1 row in set
```

### View the version of your OceanBase Database (Oracle mode)

Log on as the administrator and run the following command to view the database version:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM v$version;
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
| BANNER                                                                                                    | CON_ID |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
| OceanBase 4.0.0.0 (r20220525115829-1873fc2598d56060fe307ce3b7b88647686e0b09) (Built May 25 2022 12:12:10) |      0 |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
1 row in set
```
