Commit a transaction 
=========================================

When you commit a transaction, you persist all changes performed in the transaction, delete the savepoints, and release all transaction locks. 

To explicitly commit a transaction, use the `COMMIT` statement. 
**Note**



OceanBase Database issues an implicit `COMMIT` statement before and after a data definition language (DDL) statement, which also commits a transaction.

MySQL mode 
-------------------------------

MySQL mode

* If you use the `BEGIN` statement to start a new transaction, you must use the `COMMIT` statement to commit the transaction after you execute a DML statement. 

  Before you commit a transaction:
  * Your modifications are only visible to the current session. The other sessions cannot see them.

    
  
  * Your modifications are not permanent, and therefore not final. You can use the `ROLLBACK` statement to roll back these modifications.

    
  

  

  After you commit a transaction:
  * Your changes are visible to all database sessions.

    
  
  * Your modifications are permanent. You cannot use the `ROLLBACK` statement to roll back these modifications anymore.

    
  

  

* If you do not use `BEGIN` to start a transaction, an SQL statement is a transaction on its own, and you do not need to commit the transaction. After an SQL statement is executed, the modifications that it makes become permanent. You cannot use the `ROLLBACK` statement to roll back these modifications.

  




Example:

```sql
obclient> BEGIN;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

obclient> INSERT INTO t_insert(id,name) VALUES(4,'JP');
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)

obclient> COMMIT;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

obclient> ^Bye

[qing.meiq@h07g12088.sqa.eu95 /home/qing.meiq/bmsql]
$obclient -h192.168.1.101 -u****@obbmsql#obdemo -P2883 -p123456  TPCC
Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

obclient> SELECT * FROM t_insert;
+----+------+-------+---------------------+
| ID | NAME | VALUE | GMT_CREATE          |
+----+------+-------+---------------------+
|  1 | CN   | 10001 | 2020-04-02 17:52:31 |
|  2 | US   | 10002 | 2020-04-02 17:52:38 |
|  3 | EN   | 10003 | 2020-04-02 17:52:38 |
|  4 | JP   |  NULL | 2020-04-02 17:53:34 |
+----+------+-------+---------------------+
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```


