# FOREIGN KEY constraints

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database supports foreign keys to cross-reference related data between tables. `FOREIGN KEY `constraints help keep the related data consistent.

## Features

A foreign key relationship involves a parent table and a child table. The parent table has the initial column values and the child table references the column values in the parent table. The `FOREIGN KEY` constraint is defined on the child table.

The following is the basic syntax that defines a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint in the `CREATE TABLE` or `ALTER TABLE` statement:

```sql
​[CONSTRAINT [symbol]] FOREIGN KEY
    [index_name] (col_name, ...)
    REFERENCES tbl_name (col_name,...)
    [ON DELETE reference_option]
    [ON UPDATE reference_option]

reference_option:
    RESTRICT | CASCADE | NO ACTION | SET DEFAULT
```

The following are the features of `FOREIGN KEY` constraints:

* Identifiers

* Conditions and restrictions

* Referential actions

### Identifiers

The naming of `FOREIGN KEY` constraints is governed by the following rules:

* If you have defined the `CONSTRAINT symbol` clause, use the name specified by the clause.

* If you have not defined the `CONSTRAINT symbol` clause, or you have not entered a symbol after the `CONSTRAINT` keyword, a name of the `FOREIGN KEY` constraint is automatically generated.

* The name specified by the clause must be unique in a database. Otherwise, the error `ERROR 1005 (HY000): Can't create table 'test.fk1' (errno: 121)` is reported.

The table name and column identifier in the `FOREIGN KEY ... REFERENCES` clause can be enclosed in backticks (`).

### Conditions and restrictions

`FOREIGN KEY` constraints comply with the following conditions and restrictions:

* The creation of `FOREIGN KEY` constraints requires the `REFERENCES` privilege on the parent table. In the parent table, a column that is referenced by a foreign key must have a primary key or a unique index.

* Corresponding foreign key columns and referenced key columns must have similar data types. The size and sign of fixed precision types such as `INTEGER` and `DECIMAL` must be the same. The length of string types can be different. The character set and collation of non-binary (character) string columns must be the same.

* By default, the MySQL mode of OceanBase Database creates indexes for reference keys (parent keys) and does not create indexes for foreign keys.

* Index prefixes on foreign key columns are not supported. Therefore, `BLOB` and `TEXT` columns cannot be included in a foreign key because indexes on those columns must always include a prefix length.

* `FOREIGN KEY` constraints cannot reference virtual or generated columns.

### Referential actions

When an `UPDATE` or `DELETE` operation affects a key value in the parent table that has matching rows in the child table, the result depends on the referential action specified by the `ON UPDATE` and `ON DELETE` subclauses of the `FOREIGN KEY` clause. The following are referential actions:

* `CASCADE`: Delete or update a row from the parent table and automatically delete or update the matching row in the child table.

   The `ON DELETE CASCADE` and `ON UPDATE CASCADE` clauses are supported. Do not define multiple `ON UPDATE CASCADE` clauses that act on the same column in the parent or child table.  If a `FOREIGN KEY` clause is defined on both tables in a foreign key relationship, making them the parent and child tables, the `ON UPDATE CASCADE` or `ON DELETE CASCADE` subclause defined for one `FOREIGN KEY` clause must be defined for the other. This ensures that cascading operations are successful. If the `ON UPDATE CASCADE` or `ON DELETE CASCADE` subclause is only defined for one `FOREIGN KEY` clause, cascading operations fail and the corresponding error is reported.

* If `delete cascade` is enabled for a self-referential foreign key and a row references itself, you can drop the row in OceanBase Database's MySQL mode.

* For a self-referential foreign key, if the parent key of a row is referenced, you can update the row in cascading mode in OceanBase Database's MySQL mode.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Cascaded foreign key actions in OceanBase Database's MySQL mode activate triggers. </p>
  </main>

* `RESTRICT`: Reject the delete or update operation for the parent table.

   When you specify `RESTRICT` or `NO ACTION`, it is equivalent to omitting the `ON DELETE` or `ON UPDATE` clause.

* `NO ACTION`: A keyword from standard SQL.

   For the MySQL mode of OceanBase Database, this action is equivalent to `RESTRICT`. If the referenced table contains a related foreign key value, OceanBase Database rejects the delete or update operation for the parent table. Some database systems have deferred checks, and `NO ACTION` is a deferred check. In MySQL mode, `FOREIGN KEY` constraints are immediately checked, so `NO ACTION` is equivalent to `RESTRICT`.

For unspecified `ON DELETE` or `ON UPDATE` clauses, `NO ACTION` is always performed by default. By default, an explicitly specified `ON DELETE NO ACTION` or `ON UPDATE NO ACTION` clause does not appear in the output of `SHOW CREATE TABLE`.

## Common operations

### Add a FOREIGN KEY constraint

You can use the following `ALTER TABLE` syntax to add a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint to a table:

```sql
​ALTER TABLE table_name
ADD [CONSTRAINT [symbol]] FOREIGN KEY
[index_name] (col_name, ...)
REFERENCES tbl_name (col_name,...)
[ON DELETE reference_option]
[ON UPDATE reference_option]
```

The foreign key can be self-referential, which means referring to the same table. Before you use the `ALTER TABLE` syntax to add a foreign key constraint to a table, make sure that you have created an index on the columns referenced by the foreign key.

### Drop a FOREIGN KEY constraint

You can use the following `ALTER TABLE` syntax to drop a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint from a table:

```sql
​ALTER TABLE table_name DROP FOREIGN KEY fk_symbol;
```

If you define a `CONSTRAINT` name in the `FOREIGN KEY` clause when you create a constraint, you can reference that name to drop the foreign key constraint. Otherwise, a constraint name is internally generated, and you must use this name. To obtain the `FOREIGN KEY` constraint name, use `SHOW CREATE TABLE`.

### Foreign key check

Foreign key checking is controlled by the `foreign_key_checks` variable. By default, the variable is enabled. This variable is often enabled during normal operations to enforce referential integrity.

In the following scenarios, disabling `foreign_key_checks` is useful:

* Drop a table referenced by a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint. The table can only be dropped after you disable `foreign_key_checks`. Constraints defined on a table are dropped together with the table.

* Reload tables in an order different from the order required by their foreign key relationships.

* Import data. You can disable foreign key checking to speed up data import.

* Execute `ALTER TABLE` operations on a table in a foreign key relationship. ​

Disabling `foreign_key_checks` has the following negative effects:

* You are allowed to drop a database that contains tables with foreign keys that are referenced by tables outside the database.

* You are allowed to drop a table with foreign keys referenced by other tables. ​

A table scan is not triggered when `foreign_key_checks` is enabled. Therefore, rows added to a table during the period when `foreign_key_checks` is disabled are not checked for consistency when `foreign_key_checks` is re-enabled.

### Foreign key definitions and metadata

To view foreign key definitions, use `SHOW CREATE TABLE`. Here is an example:

```sql
​obclient> SHOW CREATE TABLE child\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
​Table: child
Create Table: CREATE TABLE `child` (
​`id` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
​`parent_id` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
​CONSTRAINT `child_OBFK_1633952161788605` FOREIGN KEY (`parent_id`) REFERENCES `test`.`parent`(`id`) ON UPDATE RESTRICT ON DELETE CASCADE ,
​KEY `par_ind` (`parent_id`) BLOCK_SIZE 16384 GLOBAL
) DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4 ROW_FORMAT = DYNAMIC COMPRESSION = 'zstd_1.3.8' REPLICA_NUM = 1 BLOCK_SIZE = 16384 USE_BLOOM_FILTER = FALSE TABLET_SIZE = 134217728 PCTFREE = 0
```

You can query information about foreign keys from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEY_COLUMN_USAGE` table. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT TABLE_SCHEMA, TABLE_NAME, COLUMN_NAME, CONSTRAINT_NAME
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEY_COLUMN_USAGE WHERE REFERENCED_TABLE_SCHEMA IS NOT NULL;
+--------------+------------+-------------+-----------------------------+
| TABLE_SCHEMA | TABLE_NAME | COLUMN_NAME | CONSTRAINT_NAME             |
+--------------+------------+-------------+-----------------------------+
| test         | child      | parent_id   | child_OBFK_1633952161788605 |
+--------------+------------+-------------+-----------------------------+
```

## Examples

* The following example shows how to relate parent and child tables by using a single-column foreign key:

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE parent (
    id INT NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
   )
   ​
   CREATE TABLE child (
    id INT,
    parent_id INT,
    INDEX par_ind(parent_id),
    FOREIGN KEY (parent_id) REFERENCES parent (id) ON DELETE CASCADE
   )
   ```

* In the following example, which is more complex, the `product_order` table has foreign keys for two other tables. One foreign key references a two-column index in the product table, whereas the other references a single-column index in the customer table.

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE product (
    category INT NOT NULL,
    id INT NOT NULL,
    price DECIMAL,
    PRIMARY KEY (category, id)
   )
   ​
   CREATE TABLE customer (
    id INT NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
   )
   ​
   CREATE TABLE product_order (
    no INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    product_category INT NOT NULL,
    product_id INT NOT NULL,
    customer_id INT NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (no),
    INDEX(product_category, product_id),
    INDEX(customer_id),
    FOREIGN KEY (product_category, product_id) REFERENCES product (category, id) ON DELETE RESTRICT ON UPDATE CASCADE,
    FOREIGN KEY (customer_id) REFERENCES customer (id)
   )
   ```
