|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Triggers

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database is compatible with the triggers of MySQL 5.6. A trigger is a table-related database object that you can activate when you use a statement to insert a row into, update a row of, or delete a row from a table that is associated with the trigger. For example, you can activate an `INSERT` trigger each time you insert a row by using an `INSERT` or `LOAD DATA` statement. If you insert two rows at the same time, the trigger fires twice.

You can specify whether a trigger fires before or after a triggering event. For example, you can specify that a trigger fires before a row is inserted into a table or after a row in the table is updated.

## Trigger types

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database supports the following types of triggers:

* `INSERT`: A trigger of this type fires when you insert a row by using an `INSERT`, `LOAD DATA`, or `REPLACE` statement.

* `UPDATE`: A trigger of this type fires when you update a row by using an `UPDATE` statement.

* `DELETE`: A trigger of this type fires when you delete a row by using a `DELETE` or `REPLACE` statement.

The `INSERT INTO ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement is a special case in which a `BEFORE INSERT` trigger fires for each row, followed by an `AFTER INSERT` trigger or both the `BEFORE UPDATE` and `AFTER UPDATE` triggers, based on whether the row has a duplicate key.

## Create a trigger

You can use a `CREATE TRIGGER` statement to create a trigger.

To create a trigger, you must have the following privileges:

* Privileges on the table associated with the trigger, such as `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` privileges

* The `CREATE` privilege on triggers

* Privileges on statements to be executed after the trigger fires

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CREATE
    [DEFINER = user]
    TRIGGER trigger_name
    trigger_time trigger_event
    ON table_name FOR EACH ROW
    [trigger_order]
    trigger_body

trigger_time: { BEFORE | AFTER }

trigger_event: { INSERT | UPDATE | DELETE }

trigger_order: { FOLLOWS | PRECEDES } other_trigger_name
```


The syntax is described as follows:

* `trigger_name`: the name of the trigger. The name must be unique.

* `tbl_name`: the name of the table for which the trigger is created.

* `BEFORE` or `AFTER`: specifies whether the trigger fires before or after the triggering event. For example, whether the trigger fires before or after each row is inserted into the associated table.

* `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE`: the triggering event, which specifies the type of the operation that fires the trigger.

* `FOR EACH ROW`: specifies whether a trigger is a row trigger. When a row trigger fires, statements in the trigger are executed once for each row that is affected by the triggering event.

* The `trigger_order` clause specifies the firing sequence of triggers with the same trigger event and operation time by using the `FOLLOWS` and `PRECEDES` keywords. The `FOLLOWS` keyword indicates that a new trigger will fire after the current trigger. The `PRECEDES` keyword indicates that a new trigger will fire before the current trigger.

OceanBase Database also supports `NEW.columnName` and `OLD.columnName`.

* For an `INSERT` trigger, `NEW.columnName` specifies new data that is inserted in a `BEFORE` scenario or was inserted in an `AFTER` scenario. `columnName` refers to a column name in the corresponding table.

* For an `UPDATE` trigger, `OLD.columnName` specifies existing data that is updated. `NEW.columnName` specifies new data after the update.

* For a `DELETE` trigger, `OLD.columnName` specifies existing data that is deleted.

* Values in `OLD.columnName` are read-only, whereas values in `NEW.columnName` can be specified by using `SET` statements.

For example, you can use the following syntax to create a trigger named `test_trg` and then associate the trigger with a table named `test` to activate `INSERT` operations. In this example, the trigger is also an accumulator, which can sum the values that are inserted into the columns of the table.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE test (user_id INT, user_num DECIMAL(10,2));
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> CREATE TRIGGER test_trg BEFORE INSERT ON test
       FOR EACH ROW SET @sum = @sum + NEW.user_num;
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

In addition, if you want to create a trigger that contains multiple statements, you can use the `BEGIN … END` statement to specify the start and end of the entire code block.

The `BEGIN … END` syntax is as follows:

```sql
BEGIN
[statement_list]
END
```

In the preceding syntax, `statement_list` specifies one or a list of statements to be executed. Each statement in the list must end with a semicolon (;). A semicolon (;) also indicates the end of an SQL statement. If the system detects a semicolon (;), the system determines it as the end of a statement and starts to execute the statement. In this case, an error is reported because the interpreter fails to find the `END` keyword that matches the `BEGIN` keyword during SQL execution. To prevent the error, you can use a `DELIMITER` command to change the delimiter of a statement.

Here is a sample `DELIMITER` command:

```sql
DELIMITER new_delemiter
```

`new_delemiter` specifies the delimiter of a statement. A delimiter can be a sign of one or more bytes in length. The default delimiter is a semicolon (;). You can change the semicolon (;) to another delimiter, such as a number sign (`#`).

After the `DELIMITER` command is added to the syntax, statements with semicolons (;) following the command can be executed without an error reported. This is because the system does not consider that a statement ends until it detects the specified delimiter, such as a number sign (`#`).

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>If you use the <code>DELIMITER</code> command to change the delimiter, make sure that you reset the delimiter to the semicolon (;) after the statements are executed. </p>
  </main>

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE test (user_id INT, user_num DECIMAL(10,2));
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> DELIMITER #

obclient> CREATE TRIGGER test_trg BEFORE UPDATE ON test
               FOR EACH ROW
               BEGIN
               IF NEW.user_num < 1 THEN
              SET NEW.user_num  = 1;
              ELSEIF NEW.user_num > 45 THEN
              SET NEW.user_num= 45;
             END IF;
             END;#
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> DELIMITER;
```

## Limitations

Triggers in MySQL mode have the following limitations:

* You can create a trigger only for a permanent table, but not for a temporary table.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Starting from OceanBase Database V4.1.0 BP4, the temporary table feature is disabled in MySQL mode.</p>
  </main>

* A trigger cannot use the `CALL` statement to call a stored procedure that returns data to the client or uses a dynamic SQL statement. However, a stored procedure or function can use an `OUT` or `IN OUT` parameter to return data to a trigger.

* A statement used to start or end a transaction is not allowed in a trigger. For example, the following statements are not allowed: `START TRANSACTION`, `COMMIT`, and `ROLLBACK`. However, rolling back a transaction to a savepoint is allowed because this process does not end the transaction.

* A foreign key action cannot fire a trigger.

* A trigger cannot return a value. Make sure that the trigger does not contain a statement that is used to return values. If you want to instantly stop a trigger, use a `LEAVE` statement.