# Overview

The `DBMS_SCHEDULER` package manages scheduled jobs. The package provides a group of functions and procedures that you can call by using a procedural language (PL) program.

<main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

## Privileges

You must directly grant the object privileges of the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` package to a user. If you grant privileges on scheduler objects such as jobs by using roles, the privileges cannot be recognized.

Only `SYS` users can perform operations on objects in `SYS` schemas.

## Usage notes

Some procedures in the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` package support a list of object names separated with commas (,). If an object in the specified list returns an error during execution, the Scheduler stops executing the object and does not perform the required tasks for subsequent objects in the list.

During the execution of the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` package, a PL exception is returned if an object does not exist.

The Scheduler uses versatile calendar syntax to help you define recurring schedules, such as a task that runs at 4:00 p.m. every Tuesday and Friday or on the second Wednesday of every month. The calendar syntax is used in the `repeat_interval` parameter in the calendar expressions of many package subprograms. The calculation of a calendar expression produces a set of discrete timestamps.

## Subprograms

The following table describes the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` subprograms supported by the current OceanBase Database version.


| Subprogram | Description |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| [CREATE_JOB](2.create-job-oracle.md) | Creates a job.  |
| [CREATE_PROGRAM](3.create-program-oracle.md) | Creates a program.  |
| [DEFINE_PROGRAM_ARGUMENT](4.define-program-argument-oracle.md) | Defines a program argument whose value can be passed to a program as a string literal.  |
| [DISABLE](5.disable-scheduler-oracle.md) | Disables a program or job.  |
| [DROP_JOB](6.drop-job-oracle.md) | Drops a job or all jobs in a job class.  |
| [DROP_PROGRAM](7.drop-program-oracle.md) | Drops a program.  |
| [ENABLE](8.enable-scheduler-oracle.md) | Enables a program or job.  |
| [GENERATE_JOB_NAME](9.generate-job-name-oracle.md) | Generates a unique name for a job.  |
| [RUN_JOB](10.run-job-oracle.md) | Immediately executes a job.  |
| [SET_ATTRIBUTE](11.set-attribute-oracle.md) | Changes the attributes of a job, program, or another Scheduler object.  |
| [SET_JOB_ARGUMENT_VALUE](12.set-job-argument-value-oracle.md) | Sets a value for a job argument.  |


