# Tenant scaling

The business volume varies with business development and the business peak varies in different periods. In this case, the database must provide elastic service capabilities. OceanBase Database provides the tenant scaling feature to support elastic service capabilities.

You can increase or decrease the computing capabilities and storage capacity of a tenant through scaling. OceanBase Database allows you to upgrade or downgrade the unit config or add or remove service nodes for scaling.

* Improve the service capability of a single node: You can upgrade the unit config of a tenant to improve the service capability of a single node.

   For more information, see [Modify the unit configs for a tenant](2.adjust-resource-specifications.md).

* Add service nodes: You can increase the number of resource units and the number of primary zones to increase the number of service nodes for a tenant, thereby improving the overall service capabilities of the tenant. For example, if a tenant has N resource units, you can increase the number of resource units to M, which is greater than N.

   * When the number of resource units changes from N to M, M - N log streams are added in each primary zone and distributed in M -N unit groups.

      For more information, see [Modify the number of resource units for a tenant](3.adjust-unit-number.md).

   * When the number of primary zones changes from N to M, M - N log streams are added in each unit group, and the leaders are distributed in M - N new primary zones.

      For more information, see [Modify the number of primary zones for a tenant](4.adjust-primary-zone.md).

To reduce the service capabilities of a tenant, such as the computing and storage capacities, you can downgrade the unit config to reduce the service capabilities of a single node or reduce the number of service nodes. To reduce the number of nodes, you can reduce the number of primary zones or the number of resource units.
