| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Define column constraints

To ensure that the data in a table conforms to your business requirements, you can define constraints at the column level.

Constraints limit the types of data that can be stored in columns. If you attempt to enter or update a value that does not satisfy the constraint on the corresponding column, an error is returned and the operation is rolled back. Likewise, if you attempt to add a constraint that conflicts with the existing data to a column in an existing table, an error is returned and the operation is rolled back.

## Constraint types

MySQL tenants of OceanBase Database support the `NOT NULL`, `UNIQUE`, `PRIMARY KEY`, `FOREIGN KEY`, and `CHECK` constraints.

### `NOT NULL` constraint

A `NOT NULL` constraint requires that the constrained column do not contain a `NULL` value.

For a column with the `NOT NULL` constraint, you must specify the values in the `INSERT` statement unless you have defined a non-null default value for the column.

The following example creates a table named `tbl1` and specifies the `NOT NULL` constraint for the `col1` column.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl1(col1 INT NOT NULL,col2 INT);
```

### `UNIQUE` constraint

A `UNIQUE` constraint requires that the constrained column do not contain duplicate values. However, it can contain multiple `NULL` values.

The following example creates a table named `tbl6` and defines a `UNIQUE` constraint on the `col1` column.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl6(col1 INT UNIQUE,col2 INT);
```

### `PRIMARY KEY` constraint

A `PRIMARY KEY` constraint is the combination of the `NOT NULL` constraint and the `UNIQUE` constraint.

The following example creates a table named `tbl2` and specifies the `PRIMARY KEY` constraint for the `col1` column.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl2(col1 INT PRIMARY KEY,col2 INT);
```

In the example, the `tbl2` table contains a primary key column `col1`. This column must contain unique values and must not contain `NULL` values.

### `FOREIGN KEY` constraint

Values in a column constrained by a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint come from a primary key column of another table, which is referred to as a parent table.

When you create a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint, you can use the following keywords to specify the cascaded operation on the constrained column of the child table when a `DELETE` or `UPDATE` operation is performed on the referenced column of the parent table:

* `RESTRICT`: If the referenced column of the parent table is dropped or updated, the DROP or UPDATE operation on the child table is rejected.

* `CASCADE`: If the referenced column of the parent table is dropped or updated, the corresponding constrained column of the child table is automatically dropped or updated.

   To specify the `CASCADE` keyword, make sure that the following conditions are met:

   * The `FOREIGN KEY` constraint is not defined on a generated column.

   * The `FOREIGN KEY` constraint is not defined on the base column of a generated column.

* `NO ACTION`: This keyword is equivalent to `RESTRICT`. If the referenced column of the parent table is dropped or updated, the DROP or UPDATE operation on the child table is rejected.

   By default, if you do not specify the `ON DELETE` or `ON UPDATE` clause when you create a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint, the `NO ACTION` keyword is used.

* `SET NULL`: If the referenced column of the parent table is dropped or updated, values of the corresponding constrained column of the child table are set to `NULL`.

   To specify the `SET NULL` keyword, make sure that the following conditions are met:

   * The column to be constrained by the `FOREIGN KEY` constraint is not constrained by a `NOT NULL` constraint.

   * The `FOREIGN KEY` constraint is not defined on a generated column.

   * The `FOREIGN KEY` constraint is not defined on the base column of a generated column.

The following example creates a table named `tbl4` and specifies to associate the `col2` column with the primary key column `col1` of a table named `tbl3`.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl4(col1 INT,col2 INT,FOREIGN KEY(col2) REFERENCES tbl2(col1) ON UPDATE CASCADE ON DELETE RESTRICT);
```

In this example, if the `col1` column of the parent table `tbl3` is updated, the constrained column of the child table is automatically updated. If the `col1` column of the parent table `tbl3` is deleted, the DELETE operation on the constrained column of the child table is rejected.

If you do not specify the constraint name when you create a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint, the system automatically assigns a constraint name in the format of `table name_OBFK_creation timestamp`, such as `t1_OBFK_1627747200000000`.

By default, OceanBase Database checks foreign keys. To disable or enable foreign key check, modify the tenant variable `foreign_key_checks`.

For more information about the `foreign_key_checks` variable, see [foreign_key_checks](../../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/200.system-variable/300.global-system-variable/2800.foreign_key_checks-global.md).

### `CHECK` constraint

A `CHECK` constraint requires that the values of the constrained column must meet specified conditions.

You can define one or more `CHECK` constraints for a single column so that only specified values are allowed for the column. You can also define table-level `CHECK` constraints to apply the constraints to multiple columns. When you modify a table name, the `CHECK` constraint name remains unchanged. When you drop a table, the `CHECK` constraints applied to the table are also dropped.

Example: Create a table named `tbl8` and set a constraint where the value of the `col1` column must be greater than `0`.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl8(col1 INT CHECK(col1>0),col2 INT);
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

If you do not specify the constraint name when you create a `CHECK` constraint, the system automatically assigns a constraint name in the `table name_OBCHECK_creation timestamp` format, such as `t1_OBCHECK_1629350823880271`.

For more information about the syntax for creating constraints, see [CREATE TABLE](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2600.create-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

## View constraints

You can check the constraints that you created by querying the `information_schema.TABLE_CONSTRAINTS` view. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM information_schema.TABLE_CONSTRAINTS WHERE TABLE_NAME='tbl6';
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| CONSTRAINT_CATALOG | CONSTRAINT_SCHEMA | CONSTRAINT_NAME | TABLE_SCHEMA | TABLE_NAME | CONSTRAINT_TYPE |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| def                | test              | col1            | test         | tbl6       | UNIQUE          |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
1 row in set
```

## Manage constraints

You can manage constraints in OceanBase Database.

### Manage `PRIMARY KEY` constraints

You can add a `PRIMARY KEY` constraint to a table or drop a `PRIMARY KEY` constraint from a table.

The SQL syntax for adding a `PRIMARY KEY` constraint is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name ADD PRIMARY KEY (column_name);
```

The SQL syntax for dropping a `PRIMARY KEY` constraint is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name DROP PRIMARY KEY;
```

Here is an example:

1. Create a table named `tbl2`.

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl2(col1 INT,col2 INT);
   ```

2. Add a `PRIMARY KEY` constraint to the `tbl2` table.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl2 ADD PRIMARY KEY (col1);
   ```

3. Drop the `PRIMARY KEY` constraint from the `tbl2` table.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl2 DROP PRIMARY KEY;
   ```

### Manage `FOREIGN KEY` constraints

You can add a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint to a table or drop a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint from a table.

Here is an example:

* Create a table named `tbl5` and add a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint to the `col2` column in the `tbl5` table. The associated primary table is `tbl2`.

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl5(col1 INT,col2 INT);
   Query OK, 0 rows affected

   obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl5 ADD CONSTRAINT tbl5_fk1 FOREIGN KEY(col2) REFERENCES tbl2(col1);
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

* Drop the `FOREIGN KEY` constraint on the `col1` column from the `tbl5` table.

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT TABLE_SCHEMA database name,TABLE_NAME table name,COLUMN_NAME column name,CONSTRAINT_NAME constraint name FROM information_schema.KEY_COLUMN_USAGE;
   +--------------+--------+--------+----------------------------+
   | Database name     | Table name   | Column name   | Constraint name                     |
   +--------------+--------+--------+----------------------------+
   | test         | tbl2   | col1   | PRIMARY                    |
   | test         | tbl3   | col1   | PRIMARY                    |
   | test         | tbl3   | col2   | PRIMARY                    |
   | test         | tbl4   | col2   | tbl4_OBFK_1645173651329873 |
   | test         | tbl5   | col1   | tbl5_OBFK_1645174931376110 |
   | test         | tbl5   | col2   | tbl5_fk1                   |
   +--------------+--------+--------+----------------------------+
   6 rows in set

   obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl5 DROP FOREIGN KEY tbl5_OBFK_1645174931376110;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

### Manage `UNIQUE` constraints

You can add `UNIQUE` constraints to a table.

Example: Create a table named `tbl7` and add a `UNIQUE` constraint to the `col2` column in the `tbl7` table.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl7(col1 INT,col2 INT);
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl7 ADD UNIQUE(col2);
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

### Manage `NOT NULL` constraints

You can change the attribute of a column in a table to `NOT NULL`.

Example: Create a table named `tbl9` and change the attribute of a column in the table to `NOT NULL`.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE tbl9(c1 int);
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl9 MODIFY c1 int NOT NULL;
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>In OceanBase Database, <code>NOT NULL</code> is a column attribute. Therefore, you cannot check the <code>NOT NULL</code> attribute of columns in a table by querying the <code>information_schema.TABLE_CONSTRAINTS</code> view. </p>
  </main>

### Manage `CHECK` constraints

You can add a `CHECK` constraint to a table and modify or drop a `CHECK` constraint from a table.

Here is an example:

* Add a `CHECK` constraint to the `col2` column in the `tbl8` table.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl8 ADD CONSTRAINT tbl8_c1 CHECK(col2>0);
   ```

* Modify the `CHECK` constraint for the table.

   After you create a `CHECK` constraint, it is enabled by default. If you want to invalidate the constraint, you can disable it.

   * Disable a `CHECK` constraint.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl8 ALTER CHECK tbl8_c1 NOT ENFORCED;
      ```

   * Enable a `CHECK` constraint.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl8 ALTER CHECK tbl8_c1 ENFORCED;
      ```

* Drop the `CHECK` constraint.

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER TABLE tbl8 DROP CHECK tbl8_c1;
   ```

For more information about the syntax for modifying constraints, see [ALTER TABLE](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/1600.alter-table-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Default setting for a date or time column

We recommend that you specify a default value for a column with the `NOT NULL` constraint. For a date or time column, you can set the current date or time of the database as the default value.

* Example: Call the `current_timestamp` function to set the default value for the datetime column of a table.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE t1(
    id bigint NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY
    , gmt_create datetime NOT NULL default current_timestamp
    , gmt_modified datetime NOT NULL default current_timestamp
);
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> INSERT INTO t1(id) VALUES(1),(2),(3);
Query OK, 3 rows affected

obclient> SELECT * FROM t1;
+----+---------------------+---------------------+
| id | gmt_create            | gmt_modified          |
+----+---------------------+---------------------+
|  1 | 2020-02-27 17:09:23 | 2020-02-27 17:09:23 |
|  2 | 2020-02-27 17:09:23 | 2020-02-27 17:09:23 |
|  3 | 2020-02-27 17:09:23 | 2020-02-27 17:09:23 |
+----+---------------------+---------------------+
3 rows in set
```

## References

For more information about `FOREIGN KEY` constraints, see [FOREIGN KEY constraints](../../../100.oceanbase-database-concepts/400.database-objects/200.database-objects-of-mysql-mode/700.data-integrity-of-mysql-mode/200.integrity-constraint-type-of-mysql-mode/500.foreign-key-constraint-of-mysql-mode.md).