|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Empty a table

When you no longer need the data in a table, you can empty it. Emptying a table means deleting all the rows in the table.

OceanBase Database allows you to use the `TRUNCATE TABLE` or the `DELETE FROM` statement to empty a table. After a table is emptied, the table schema is retained, including its partitioning information. From a logical perspective, using `TRUNCATE TABLE` and using `DELETE FROM` to clear all the rows in a table have the same effect.

## Use the TRUNCATE TABLE statement

The `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement provides a quick and effective method to clear all the rows in a table. `TRUNCATE TABLE` is a DDL statement. It does not generate rollback information.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>To execute the <code>TRUNCATE TABLE</code> statement on a specified table, you must have privileges to drop and create the table. </p>
</main>

```sql
obclient>TRUNCATE TABLE table_name;
```

## Use the DELETE FROM statement

You can use `DELETE FROM` to clear the rows in a table.

```sql
obclient>DELETE FROM table_name;
```

Using `DELETE FROM` to empty a table that has many rows consumes a large number of system resources.

## Differences between TRUNCATE TABLE and DELETE FROM

* The `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement drops a table and creates it again. It is much faster than deleting data row by row.

* The output of `TRUNCATE TABLE` always indicates that 0 rows were affected.

* When you use `TRUNCATE TABLE`, the table management program does not record the last `AUTO_INCREMENT` value, but resets it to zero.

* You cannot perform the `TRUNCATE TABLE` operation on a table that is involved in a transaction or locked.

* If the table definition file is valid, you can use the `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement to recreate the table as an empty table, even if the data or indexes are corrupted.
