# Handle logon failures

If a user fails to log on to OceanBase Database multiple times, OceanBase Database locks the account of the user to prevent malicious password attacks. This improves the security of OceanBase Database. 

## Logon failure handling strategy

In MySQL mode of OceanBase Database, you can set the `connection_control_failed_connections_threshold` parameter for a tenant to specify the threshold for control over failed logon attempts. If the number of consecutive failed logon attempts exceeds the value of this parameter, the system locks the account. 

The default value of the `connection_control_failed_connections_threshold` parameter is `0`, and the value range is \[0, 2147483647\]. Notes:

* A value of `0` indicates that the feature is disabled. In this case, no action is taken against failed logon attempts. 

* If you set the parameter to a value other than `0`, the account of a user is locked when the number of failed logon attempts by the user exceeds the specified value. The lock duration is calculated by using the following formula:

   `MIN(MAX((current_failed_login_num + 1 - connection_control_failed_connections_threshold) * 1000, connection_control_min_connection_delay), connection_control_max_connection_delay)`

   Notes:

   * `current_failed_login_num`: the number of consecutive failed logon attempts by a user. The value of the `current_failed_login_num` parameter is greater than or equal to that of the `connection_control_failed_connections_threshold` parameter. 

   * `connection_control_min_connection_delay`: the minimum lock duration in milliseconds after the number of consecutive failed logon attempts exceeds the specified threshold. Value range: \[1000,2147483647\]. Default value: `1000`. 

      For more information about the `connection_control_min_connection_delay` parameter, see [connection_control_min_connection_delay](../../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/4.tenant-level-configuration-items/6.connection_control_min_connection_delay.md). 

   * `connection_control_max_connection_delay`: the maximum lock duration in milliseconds after the number of consecutive failed logon attempts exceeds the specified threshold. Value range: \[1000, 2147483647\]. Default value: `2147483647`. 

      For more information about the `connection_control_max_connection_delay` parameter, see [connection_control_max_connection_delay](../../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/4.tenant-level-configuration-items/7.connection_control_max_connection_delay.md). 

## Configuration example

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of a cluster as the root user. 

   ```shell
   obclient -uroot@mysql -h127.1 -P2881 -p********
   ```

2. Execute the following statements to set the threshold for failed logon attempts to 5 and set the minimum lock period and maximum lock period for an account when the number of failed logon attempts reaches the specified threshold to 60000 ms and 360000 ms respectively. 

   Example:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET connection_control_failed_connections_threshold=5;

   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET connection_control_min_connection_delay=60000;

   obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET connection_control_max_connection_delay=360000;
   ```

   For more information about the parameters, see [Modify cluster parameters](../../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/2.configuration-management/2.set-parameters.md). 

3. Create a user for logon. 

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE USER 'test' IDENTIFIED BY '*******';
   Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.04 sec)
   ```

4. Verify the logon failure handling strategy.
   If you enter an incorrect password five consecutive times, your account will be locked. 

   ```shell
   obclient -h127.1 -P2881 -utest@mysql -p**123**;
   obclient: [Warning] Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
   ERROR 5039 (01007): User locked
   ```

   Log on to a `MySQL` tenant of OceanBase Database as the `root` user to view the logon failure information. 

   ```shell
   obclient> SELECT * FROM information_schema.CONNECTION_CONTROL_FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS;
   +-------------+-----------------+
   | USERHOST    | FAILED_ATTEMPTS |
   +-------------+-----------------+
   | 'test'@'%' |               5 |
   +-------------+-----------------+
   1 row in set (0.005 sec)
   ```

5. Execute the following SQL statement to unlock the user. 

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice:</h4>
    <p>If you log on as the administrator, you can directly lock and unlock users. If you log on as a regular user, you must have the global <code>ALTER USER</code> privilege to lock and unlock users. For more information about how to view and grant user privileges, see <a href="../../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/5.manage-users-and-permissions/3.mysql-mode/4.view-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md">View user privileges</a> and <a href="../../../../7.reference/2.administrator-guide/2.basic-database-management/4.manage-tenants/5.manage-users-and-permissions/3.mysql-mode/5.modify-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md">Modify user privileges</a>.</p>
   </main>

   ```shell
      obclient> ALTER USER test ACCOUNT UNLOCK;
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.03 sec)
   ```
