# View the topology of a cluster

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) provides a topology diagram that allows you to view the logical relationships between zones and OBServer nodes in a cluster or tenant.

Log on to the OCP console. In the **Clusters** list on the **Clusters** page, select the target cluster and click its name. In the left-side navigation pane of the page that appears, click **Topology** to go to the cluster topology page.

The cluster topology allows you to perform the following operations:

* You can see the protection mode information in the upper-left corner of the page.

* If the cluster is a standby cluster, you can view the synchronization status on the top of the standby cluster.

* You can use the function buttons in the upper-right corner of the page to resize or refresh the topology.

The cluster topology consists of three layers from top to bottom: cluster, zone, and server. You can click **+** beneath the zone to show all servers in the zone.

## Cluster

The ID, type (primary or standby), and current status of the cluster are displayed next to the cluster icon.

In the case of a standby cluster, you can also see its latency next to the cluster icon.

The topology also provides some cluster-management functions.

For a primary cluster, you can create a backup cluster, add a zone, add an OBServer node, upgrade the version, change the password, and restart, stop, or delete the cluster.

For a standby cluster, you can perform operations such as viewing the cluster and switching to the primary cluster.

## Zone

The name and current status of a zone are displayed next to the zone icon.

You can move the pointer over a zone icon to view information about the zone, such as the QPS, number of connections, and number of units.

The topology also provides some zone management features that allow you to add an OBServer node and restart, stop, or delete a zone.

## Server

The IP address and current status of a server are displayed next to the server icon.

You can move the pointer over a server icon to view the information about the server, such as the QPS, number of connections, and SQL ports.

The topology also provides some server management features that allow you to restart, start, stop, replace, and delete a server.

## More information

* You can check the statuses and other basic information of all zones in the cluster from the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_ZONES` view.

* You can check the statuses and other basic information of all servers in the cluster from the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_SERVERS` view.
