| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Full-text index

<main id="notice" type='notice'>

  <h4>Notice</h4>

  <p>At present, the full-text indexing feature is in the experimental stage. We recommend that you do not use the feature in a production environment to avoid affecting system stability. </p>

</main>

OceanBase Database allows you to use the `FULLTEXT` keyword in the `CREATE TABLE` statement to create a full-text index. In the MySQL mode of OceanBase Database, you can create full-text indexes on columns of the `CHAR`, `VARCHAR`, and `TEXT` types. In addition, you can create multiple full-text indexes in the primary table and on the same column. 

* You can create full-text indexes in a non-partitioned table, regardless of whether the table has a primary key. For partitioned tables, the following rules are applied:

   * You can create full-text indexes in a partitioned table with a primary key. 
   * You cannot create full-text indexes in a partitioned table without a primary key. 

* You can create full-text indexes only on columns of the `CHAR`, `VARCHAR`, and `TEXT` types. 
* In the current version of OceanBase Database, you can create only local full-text indexes. 
* When you create a full-text index, you cannot specify the `UNIQUE` keyword. 
* To create a full-text index across multiple columns, you must ensure that these columns use the same character set. 

Based on these syntax and rules, you can use the full-text index feature of OceanBase Database to efficiently search and retrieve text data. 

## References

For more information about how to create a full-text index, see the **Create a full-text index** section in [Create an index](../../../../300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/500.manage-indexes-of-mysql-mode/200.create-an-index-of-mysql-mode.md). 