|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Modify unit configs

Modifying unit configs means increasing or decreasing the CPU, memory, log disk capacity, etc. for unit configs.

## Considerations

Before modifying a unit config, if the unit corresponding to the unit config is being used by a tenant and additional resources are needed, you must ensure that there is sufficient remaining resources available for allocation on each node during the resource increase process. You can query the total resources and allocated resources on each node through the `oceanbase.GV$OB_SERVERS` view, and then determine whether it is possible to modify the unit config.

If you need to increase a unit config, you must ensure that the total amount of resources after the increase meets the following requirements:

```javascript
Sum(min_cpu) <= CPU_CAPACITY;
Sum(max_cpu) <= CPU_CAPACITY * resource_hard_limit;
Sum(memory_size) <= MEM_CAPACITY;
Sum(log_disk_size) <= LOG_DISK_CAPACITY;
```

where

* `CPU_CAPACITY`: Indicates the total CPU capacity on a single node.

* `resource_hard_limit`: Indicates the amount of CPU resources allocated by the system when allocating units. The value range is \[100, 10000\]. The default value is `100`, indicating that over-allocation is not allowed.

   For more information about the `resource_hard_limit` parameter, see [resource_hard_limit](../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/16800.resource_hard_limit.md).

* `MEM_CAPACITY`: Indicates the total memory capacity on a single node.

* `LOG_DISK_CAPACITY`: Indicates the total log disk capacity on a single node.

   The total log disk capacity is jointly controlled by the cluster-level parameters `log_disk_size` and `log_disk_percentage`. `log_disk_size` is used to set the size of the disk where redo logs are stored, with a default value of `0`. `log_disk_percentage` is used to set the percentage of the disk space occupied by redo logs, with a default value of `0`. The usage rules for these two parameters are as follows:

   * If the value of `log_disk_size` is `0M` and that of `log_disk_percentage` is not `0`, the system allocates the log disk space based on the value of `log_disk_percentage`.

   * If the value of `log_disk_size` is not `0M`, the system allocates the log disk space based on the value of `log_disk_size`, regardless of whether the value of `log_disk_percentage` is `0`.

   * If the value of `log_disk_size` is `0M` and that of `log_disk_percentage` is `0`, the system automatically calculates the percentage of the disk space occupied by redo logs based on whether the log and data share the same disk.

      * If they share the same disk, the percentage of the disk space occupied by redo logs is 30%.

      * If redo logs exclusively occupy the disk, the percentage of the disk space occupied by redo logs is 90%.

   For more information about the `log_disk_size` parameter, see [log_disk_size](../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/23700.log_disk_size.md).

   For more information about the `log_disk_percentage` parameter, see [log_disk_percentage](../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/23800.log_disk_percentage.md).

If you need to decrease a unit config, you must ensure that the total amount of CPU, memory, log disk capacity after the decrease is greater than or equal to the currently used log disk space.

## Limitations

Only the `sys` tenant can modify unit configs.

## Procedure

When modifying unit configs, you can modify several items in CPU, memory, IOPS, and log disk capacity. The items that are not modified will remain unchanged.

1. Log in to the `sys` tenant of the cluster using the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to modify a unit config:


   ```sql
   ALTER RESOURCE UNIT unitname
   MAX_CPU [=] cpunum,
   [MIN_CPU [=] cpunum,]
   MEMORY_SIZE [=] memsize,
   [MAX_IOPS [=] iopsnum, MIN_IOPS [=] iopsnum,IOPS_WEIGHT [=]iopsweight,]
   [LOG_DISK_SIZE [=] logdisksize];
   ```

   An example of modifying the configurations of the `unit1` resource unit is as follows:

   ```shell
   obclient> ALTER RESOURCE UNIT unit1 MAX_CPU 15, MEMORY_SIZE '20G', LOG_DISK_SIZE '4G';
   ```
