|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# About indexes

An index, also known as a secondary index, is an optional structure that users can create on some fields based on their business needs. Its purpose is to accelerate the query speed on those fields. This topic mainly introduces the advantages and disadvantages of using indexes, their availability and visibility, as well as the relationship between indexes and keys.

OceanBase Database adopts a clustered index table model. For a user-specified primary key, a primary key index is automatically generated. Other indexes created by users are considered secondary indexes.

In the following example, a table called `employee` is created, and three sets of data are inserted.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE employee(id INT, name VARCHAR(20), PRIMARY KEY(id));
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> INSERT INTO employee VALUES(1,'John'),(2,'Alice'),(3,'Bob');
Query OK, 3 rows affected
Records: 3  Duplicates: 0  Warnings: 0

obclient> SELECT * FROM employee;
+----+-------+
| ID | NAME  |
+----+-------+
|  1 | John  |
|  2 | Alice |
|  3 | Bob   |
+----+-------+
3 rows in set
```

In the `employee` table, data is stored in order based on the user-specified `id` field. When searching for data, it is possible to quickly locate the specific data using binary search based on `id`. If there is a need to quickly search by the `name` field, a secondary index can be created on the `name` field, as shown in the example below:

```sql
CREATE INDEX name_index ON employee(name);
```

The data in the index table would be as follows:

```plain
name: Alice, id: 2
name: Bob, id :3
name: John, id: 1
```

In the `name_index` index table, the data is stored in order based on the `name` field. When a user specifies a query on the `name` field, specific data can be quickly located using binary search.

## Advantages and disadvantages

Indexes have the following advantages:

* Indexes enable faster SQL queries without the need to modify SQL statements, as only the necessary data is scanned.

* Indexes typically store a minimal number of columns, reducing query I/O overhead.

Indexes have the following disadvantages:

* Creating indexes requires a deep understanding of the business and its data model to choose the appropriate columns.

* If any changes occur in the business, a reassessment of existing indexes is necessary to ensure they still meet the requirements.

* Maintaining index table data during incremental data writes can impact database performance.

* Index tables consume resources, including memory and disk resources.

## Usability and visibility

### Usability of indexes

In a `DROP PARTITION` operation, if the `rebuild index` field is not specified, the index is marked as `UNUSABLE`, which indicates that the index is unavailable. In this case, the index does not need to be maintained in Data Manipulation Language (DML) operations, and is ignored by the optimizer.

### Visibility of indexes

The visibility of an index determines whether the index is ignored by the optimizer. If an index is invisible, it is ignored by the optimizer but needs to be maintained in DML operations. Before you drop an index, you can make it invisible to test the effect on your business. If your business is not affected, you can drop the index.

## Relationships between indexes and keys

A key is one or more columns or expressions on which you can create indexes. A key is a logical concept, whereas an index is an object stored in a database.
