# Add or delete a zone

You can add or delete a zone by using an SQL statement.

You can add a zone to a cluster to scale out the cluster or delete a zone from a cluster to scale in the cluster.

## Add a zone

Sample statement:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM ADD ZONE zone_name [zone_option_list];

zone_option_list:
    zone_option [, zone_option ...]

zone_option:
    | region
    | idc
    | zone_type ReadWrite
```

Notes:

* This statement can be executed only in the `sys` tenant.

* `zone_name` specifies the name of the zone to be added. This statement adds only one zone at a time.

* `zone_option_list` specifies the attributes of the zone. Separate multiple attributes with commas (,).

   Attributes of a zone:

   * `region`: the name of the region where the zone is located. If this attribute is not specified, the default value `default_region` is used.

   * `idc`: the name of the IDC where the zone is located. If the attribute is not specified, it is empty by default.

   * `zone_type`: the type of the zone. Default value: `ReadWrite`. If `zone_type` is not specified, the zone is a read/write zone by default.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The current version does not support the modification of the <code>zone_type</code> attribute. Therefore, you must specify the <code>zone_type</code> attribute when you add a zone. </p>
  </main>

* After you add a zone to a cluster by using the `ALTER SYSTEM ADD ZONE zone_name;` statement, you must add OBServer nodes, allocate resources, and add replicas to the zone before you can use it in the cluster.

   For more information about how to add zones to a cluster to scale out the cluster, see [Add a zone to a cluster](../../../7.management/1.scale-out-and-scale-in/2.cluster-level-scale-out-and-scale-in/1.scale-out/1.add-a-zone-to-the-cluster.md).

Example: Add `zone1` to the cluster

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM ADD ZONE zone1;
```

## Delete a zone

Sample statement:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM DELETE ZONE zone_name;
```

Notes:

* This statement can be executed only in the `sys` tenant.

* `zone_name` specifies the name of the zone to be deleted. This statement deletes only one zone at a time.

* Before you delete a zone, make sure that no OBServer node is deployed in the zone. Otherwise, the deletion will fail.

Example: Delete `zone1` from the cluster

```sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM DELETE ZONE zone1;
```
