|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Limitations on writing SQL statements

This topic describes the limitations when you write SQL statements in OceanBase Database.

* Limitations on tables with the primary keys are as follows:

   * Each table can have at most one primary key column group.

   * The primary key cannot contain a NULL or empty value.

   * The values of the primary key cannot be modified.

   * A primary key can contain at most 64 columns.

   * The total length of primary key data cannot exceed 16 KB.

* When you create a VARCHAR or VARCHAR2 column, you must specify the maximum length for the column, which must be at least 1 byte.

* NUMBER indicates a variable-length and precise numeric value type and occupies a space of 4 to 40 bytes. A NUMBER column can store zeros, floating-point numbers, and positive and negative fixed-point numbers. The NUMBER data type features higher data precision, versatility, and portability. However, it has a lower operational efficiency in comparison with the FLOAT data type.

* Reference an attribute or method of an object type:

   * To reference an attribute or method of an object type in an SQL statement, use a table alias to fully qualify the reference.

   * To reference a member method that does not accept parameters, you must provide empty parentheses.

* When you use partition extensions and subpartition extensions, note the following limitations:

   * If a partition extension or subpartition extension does not contain a remote table, the extension cannot contain a database link or a synonym that can be converted to a table with a database link.

   * If a partition extension or subpartition extension does not contain a synonym, you must use the base table to specify the partition extension or subpartition extension. Synonyms, views, or any other objects are not allowed.

   * In a `PARTITION` FOR or `SUBPARTITION` FOR clause, do not specify the `DEFAULT` keyword, `MAXVALUE` keyword, or a binding variable as the value of `partition_key_value` or `subpartition_key_value`.

   * In a `PARTITION` or `SUBPARTITION` clause, do not specify binding variables for a partition or subpartition name.

* You can perform only read operations such as `SELECT` on the objects in the recycle bin but cannot perform write operations such as DML and DDL operations on them.

* The `SELECT...FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED` statement supports only single-table queries.
