| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Create a role

This topic describes how to create roles by using the `CREATE ROLE` statement and how to manage privileges by role.

## Prerequisites

* You have the global `CREATE USER` privilege.

   For more information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../400.view-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md). If you do not have the required privilege, contact the administrator to obtain the privilege. For more information about how to grant privileges to a user, see [Grant direct privileges](../200.authority-of-mysql-mode.md).

* If the system variable `read_only` is set to `1` for the current tenant, which indicates that the tenant is in read-only mode, you must also have the `SUPER` privilege to execute the `CREATE ROLE` statement.

   The system variable `read_only` specifies whether to enable the read-only mode for a tenant. The default value is `0`, which indicates that the tenant is in read/write mode. For more information, see [read_only](../../../../../../700.reference/800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/200.system-variable/300.global-system-variable/11100.read_only-global.md).

## Example

To create a role named `role1`, execute the following statement:

```shell
obclient [oceanbase]> CREATE ROLE role1;
```

Alternatively, execute the following statement:

```shell
obclient [oceanbase]> CREATE ROLE IF NOT EXISTS role1;
```

In the preceding example, if you execute the statement without the `IF NOT EXISTS` clause, and the `role1` role already exists in the tenant, an error is reported. If the `IF NOT EXISTS` clause is used, a warning message is returned if the error occurs.

```shell
obclient [oceanbase]> CREATE ROLE IF NOT EXISTS role1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected, 1 warning
```

You can query the warning message by using the `SHOW WARNINGS;` statement. The result is as follows:

```shell
+-------+------+---------------------------------------------+
| Level | Code | Message                                     |
+-------+------+---------------------------------------------+
| Note  | 3163 | Authorization ID 'role1'@'%' already exists |
+-------+------+---------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## What to do next

After the role is created, you can grant privileges or other roles to the role. For more information, see the following topics:

* [Grant privileges to a role](300.grant-privileges-to-a-role-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Grant a role to a user or another role](400.grant-a-role-to-a-role-or-user-of-mysql-mode.md)

## References

For more information about the `CREATE ROLE` statement, see [CREATE ROLE](../../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2450.create-role-of-mysql-mode.md).