| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Grant a role to a user or another role

This topic describes how to grant a role to a user or another role. You cannot grant a role to itself. Circular role granting is not supported.

You can grant one or more roles to one or more users or roles.

## Prerequisites

You have the roles to be granted and the `ADMIN OPTION` privilege. For more information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../400.view-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Examples

### Grant a role to a user

* Grant the `employee` role to the `test1` user and allow the user to grant the role to other users or roles.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> GRANT employee TO test1 WITH ADMIN OPTION;
   ```

   In this example, the `WITH ADMIN OPTION` clause specifies whether the role can be granted to other roles or users.

* Grant the `employee` role to the `test1` and `test2` users.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> GRANT employee TO test1,test2;
   ```

* Grant the `employee` and `developer` roles to the `test1` user.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> GRANT employee,developer TO test1;
   ```

### Grant a role to another role

* Grant the `employee` role to the `role1` role, and allow the `role1` role to grant the `employee` role to other roles or users.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> GRANT employee TO role1 WITH ADMIN OPTION;
   ```

   In this example, the `WITH ADMIN OPTION` clause specifies whether the role can be granted to other roles or users.

* Grant the `employee` role to the `role1` and `role2` roles.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> GRANT employee TO role1,role2;
   ```

* Grant the `employee` and `developer` roles to the `role1` role.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> GRANT employee,developer TO role1;
   ```

## What to do next

To use the privileges of a granted role, the granted role must be activated. For information about how to activate a role, see [Activate a role](500.activating-roles-of-mysql-mode.md).

## References

For more information about the `GRANT` statement, see [GRANT](../../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/5500.grant-of-mysql-mode.md).