| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Activate a role

A user can be granted multiple roles. After a role is granted to a user, the user can use the privileges of the role only when the role is active in a session. You can use the `CURRENT_ROLE()` function to query the active roles in the current session.

By default, roles granted to a user or role from another user or role are not automatically activated in a session.

## Specify the roles that become active by default when a user logs on

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database allows you to specify the roles of a user that become active by default when the user logs on by using the `SET DEFAULT ROLE` statement or the `ALTER USER` statement with the `DEFAULT ROLE` clause.

### Prerequisites

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>If a role is already granted to a user, you can specify to activate the role by default when you log on as the user without further authorization. </p>
</main>

* The user has the roles to be activated.

* The user has the `CREATE USER` privilege.

### Examples of using the `SET DEFAULT ROLE` statement

You can specify to activate the roles of one or more users in one `SET DEFAULT ROLE` statement.

* Specify to deactivate all roles granted to the `test1` user by default when the user logs on.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET DEFAULT ROLE NONE TO test1;
   ```

   To deactivate all roles granted to the `test1` and `test2` users by default when they log on, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET DEFAULT ROLE NONE TO test1,test2;
   ```

* Specify to activate all roles granted to the `test1` user by default when the user logs on.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET DEFAULT ROLE ALL TO test1;
   ```

* Specify to activate the `employee` and `developer` roles granted to the `test1` user by default when the user logs on.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET DEFAULT ROLE employee,developer TO test1;
   ```

### Examples of using the `ALTER USER` statement

You can specify to activate the roles of one user in one `ALTER USER` statement.

* Specify to deactivate all roles granted to the `test1` user by default when the user logs on.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> ALTER USER test1 DEFAULT ROLE NONE;
   ```

* Specify to activate all roles granted to the `test1` user by default when the user logs on.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> ALTER USER test1 DEFAULT ROLE ALL;
   ```

* Specify to activate the `employee` and `developer` roles granted to the `test1` user by default when the user logs on.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> ALTER USER test1 DEFAULT ROLE employee,developer;
   ```

## Use the activate_all_roles_on_login variable

If a user has the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege, you can use the global variable `activate_all_roles_on_login` to specify to automatically activate all roles granted to the user when the user logs on. The default value of the variable is `off`, which specifies to not activate any roles granted to a user when the user logs on.

When you set the variable, observe the following notes:

* If you set the `activate_all_roles_on_login` variable to `on`, the system ignores the `SET DEFAULT ROLE` or `ALTER USER` statement, and automatically activates all roles granted to a user by default when the user logs on.

* If you set the `activate_all_roles_on_login` variable to `off`, the system automatically activates the roles specified by the `SET DEFAULT ROLE` or `ALTER USER` statement when the user logs on.

You can set the `activate_all_roles_on_login` variable to `on` by using the following statement:

```shell
obclient [oceanbase]> SET GLOBAL activate_all_roles_on_login = on;
```

## Specify the roles that become active in the current session

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database allows you to specify the roles granted to the current user that become active in the current session by using the `SET ROLE` statement.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>The <code>SET ROLE</code> statement takes effect only in the current session. </p>
</main>

Here are some examples:

* Specify to maintain the default role settings in the current session.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET ROLE DEFAULT;
   ```

   After the statement is executed, the system activates roles based on the value of the `activate_all_roles_on_login` variable and the settings of the `SET DEFAULT ROLE` or `ALTER USER` statement.

   * If the `activate_all_roles_on_login` variable is set to `on`, the system activates all roles granted to the user in the current session.

   * If the `activate_all_roles_on_login` variable is set to `off`, the system activates the roles specified in the `SET DEFAULT ROLE` or `ALTER USER` statement in the current session.

* Specify to deactivate all roles granted to the current user in the current session.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET ROLE NONE;
   ```

* Specify to activate all roles granted to the current user in the current session.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET ROLE ALL;.
   ```

* Specify to activate all roles granted to the current user other than `role1` in the current session.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET ROLE ALL EXCEPT role1;
   ```

   You can specify multiple roles that you want to exclude.

* Specify to activate the `employee` and `developer` roles in the current session.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SET ROLE employee,developer;
   ```

## References

[View roles](../340.role-management-of-mysql-mode/600.view-roles-of-mysql-mode.md)