| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Revoke a role from a user or another role

This topic describes how to revoke a role from a user or another role by using the `REVOKE` statement.

You can revoke one or more roles from one or more users or roles.

## Prerequisites

You have the roles to be revoked and the `ADMIN OPTION` privilege. For information about how to view the roles of a user or role, see [View roles](600.view-roles-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Notice

The `REVOKE` statement does not take immediate effect on the current user.

## Examples

### Revoke a role from a user

* Revoke the `employee` role from the `test1` user.

   ```sql
   obclient [oceanbase]> REVOKE employee FROM test1;
   ```

* Revoke the `employee` role from the `test1` and `test2` users.

   ```sql
   obclient [oceanbase]> REVOKE employee FROM test1,test2 IGNORE UNKNOWN USER;
   ```

   In this example, the `IGNORE UNKNOWN USER` clause is used to check whether the specified users exist. Assuming that the `test1` or `test2` user does not exist, an error is reported if you do not use the clause, or a warning message is returned if you use the clause.

   If the `test1` or `test2` user does not exist, the revoke operation fails regardless of whether you use the `IGNORE UNKNOWN USER` clause.

* Revoke the `employee` and `developer` roles from the `test1` user.

   ```sql
   obclient [oceanbase]> REVOKE IF EXISTS employee,developer FROM test1 IGNORE UNKNOWN USER;
   ```

   In this example, the `IF EXISTS` clause is used to check whether the specified roles exist in the tenant. Assuming that the `employee` or `developer` role does not exist, an error is reported if you do not use the clause, or a warning message is returned if you use the clause.

   If the `employee` or `developer` role does not exist, the revoke operation fails regardless of whether you use the `IF EXISTS` clause.

### Revoke a role from another role

* Revoke the `employee` role from the `role1` role.

   ```sql
   obclient [oceanbase]> REVOKE employee FROM role1;
   ```

* Revoke the `employee` role from the `role1` and `role2` roles.

   ```sql
   obclient [oceanbase]> REVOKE IF EXISTS employee FROM role1,role2;
   ```

## References

* [Revoke privileges](../500.modify-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md)

* For more information about the `REVOKE` statement, see [REVOKE](../../../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/7700.revoke-of-mysql-mode.md).