| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | Oracle Mode |

# Empty a table

If you no longer need the data in a table, you can empty the table. Emptying a table means clearing all the data in the table.

OceanBase Database allows you to use the `TRUNCATE TABLE` or the `DELETE FROM` statement to empty a table. After a table is emptied, the table schema is retained, including its partitioning information. From a logical perspective, using `TRUNCATE TABLE` and using `DELETE FROM` to delete all the rows in a table have the same effect.

## Use the TRUNCATE TABLE statement

The `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement provides a quick and effective method to delete all the rows in a table. `TRUNCATE TABLE` is a DDL statement. It does not generate rollback information.

To execute the `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement on a specified table, you must have privileges to drop and create the table. For information about how to query and grant user privileges, see [Grant direct privileges](../../../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/300.permission-of-oracle-mode/200.authority-of-oracle-mode.md).

```sql
obclient>TRUNCATE TABLE table_name;
```

## Use the DELETE FROM statement

You can also use `DELETE FROM` to clear the rows in a table. `DELETE FROM` is a DML statement and supports rollback operations.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient>DELETE FROM table_name;
```

Using `DELETE FROM` to empty a table that has many rows consumes a large number of system resources.

## Differences between TRUNCATE TABLE and DELETE FROM

`TRUNCATE TABLE` and `DELETE FROM` have the following differences:

* The output of `TRUNCATE TABLE` always indicates that 0 rows were affected.

* When you use `TRUNCATE TABLE`, the table management program does not record the last `AUTO_INCREMENT` value, but resets it to zero.

* You cannot perform the `TRUNCATE TABLE` operation on a table that is involved in a transaction or locked.

* If the table definition file is valid, you can use the `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement to recreate the table as an empty table, even if the data or indexes are corrupted.