# About the DELETE statement

You can use the DELETE statement to delete records from a table. This topic describes how to use the statement.

## DELETE statement

Syntax:

```sql
DELETE FROM table_name [ WHERE condition ];
```

| Parameter | Required | Description | Examples |
|-----------------------|------|----------------------------------|------------|
| table_name | Yes | The table from which data is to be deleted. | table1 |
| \[ WHERE condition \] | No | The condition for deleting data. If no condition is specified, all data in the table is deleted.  | where id=3 |

> **Note**
>
> If a table contains hundreds of thousands of records, a large transaction is generated, which may reduce the performance. We recommend that you specify the `WHERE` clause to delete data in batches or use the `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement.

## Examples

### Delete data from a table

Delete all rows meeting the `o_w_id=2` condition from the ordr table.

```sql
DELETE FROM ordr WHERE o_w_id=2;
```

Delete all rows from the ordr table.

```sql
DELETE FROM ordr;
```

> **Note**
>
> In addition to the `DELETE` statement, the `REPLACE INTO` statement may also be used to delete data.

### Delete data from a table in batches

For a table that contains millions of records, deleting all the records at a time may result in performance issues. We recommend that you delete the data in batches. In the following example, the data meeting the `o_w_id < 100000`, `o_w_id < 200000`, and `o_w_id < 300000` conditions is deleted in batches.

```sql
DELETE FROM ordr WHERE o_w_id < 100000;
DELETE FROM ordr WHERE o_w_id < 200000;
DELETE FROM ordr WHERE o_w_id < 300000;
```

### Clear a table

The `TRUNCATE TABLE` statement clears a table but retains its structure, including the partitions defined for the table. Logically, this statement is equivalent to the `DELETE FROM` statement that is used to delete all rows. In the following example, `TRUNCATE TABLE` is used to clear the ordr table:

```sql
obclient> TRUNCATE TABLE ordr;
```
