|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# User naming conventions

This topic provides guidelines for naming users in database operations to ensure consistent naming conventions. Note that the naming conventions mentioned here are for reference purposes only.

Users in the database can be categorized based on their features, and different naming conventions can be applied depending on the specific business requirements. The following sections outline the naming conventions for each user type.


* **Business object owners**

   A business object owner is responsible for creating and maintaining objects in the database. To name a user of this type, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + data". For example, you can name an owner of the abs subsystem as "absdata".

* **Application users for database access**

   Application users for database access are primarily responsible for connecting to the database and operating on business data. To name a user of this type, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + opr". For example, you can name an application user of the abs subsystem as "absopr".

* **Tool users**

   Many users in the database use specific tools, such as those for data migration. To name these users, consider using the tool name as a basis. For example:

   * To name a kettle user, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + ktl". For example, you can name a kettle user of the abs subsystem as "absktl".

   * To name a sqoop user, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + sqp". For example, you can name a sqoop user of the abs subsystem as "abssqp".

* **Monitoring users**

   You can create an independent user for monitoring purposes in the database. The recommended name for users of this type is "dbmonopr".

* **Data backup users**

   You can create users for backup purposes in the database. To name a user of this type, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + bak". For example, you can name a backup user of the abs subsystem as "absbak".

* **Database management users**

   A database management user is a database administrator (DBA) who manages the database. You can name the user "dbmgr". To distinguish between a production database and a test database, you can name the DBA user in the test database "testmgr".

* **General test users**

   You can create a user with high privileges on database operations for test purpose. To name a user of this type, use the format of "subsystem abbreviation + test". For example, you can name a test user of the abs subsystem as "abstest".

