# Table naming conventions

This topic provides guidelines for naming tables in database operations to ensure consistent naming conventions.

## Table naming suggestions

* Use either all uppercase letters or all lowercase letters for table names. Do not use a combination of uppercase and lowercase letters.

* Start table names with letters.

* Use table names that well represent the data content, for example, "TEST".

* Do not start or end table names with underscores (_).

* Do not start table names with digits.

* Do not use reserved words or keywords in table names.

* Do not enclose only digits in underscores (_) in table names.

* Do not use plural forms in table names.

* Start a table name with a subsystem name or its standard abbreviation, followed by "_" and then a feature name or its standard abbreviation in the format of "business name_table feature", for example, "ACCOUNT_USER".

* Add a number that increments progressively starting from 00 at the end of a table name, for example, ACCOUNT_USER_00, ACCOUNT_USER_01, and ACCOUNT_USER_02.

* For tables partitioned by time, follow the table naming format of "general table name_time". For example, name a table partition that is of the "ACCOUNT_USER" table and that is obtained through partitioning in January 2022 as "ACCOUNT_USER_2201".

* For an intermediate table that stores intermediate result sets, follow the table naming format of "tmp_ table name (or abbreviation)_column name (or abbreviation)_creation time", for example, "tmp_account_tbluser_20220224".

* For a backup table that stores backups or snapshots of a source table, follow the table naming format of "bak_table name (or abbreviation)_column name (or abbreviation)_creation time", for example, "bak_account_tbluser_20220224".
