|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Other naming conventions

This topic provides recommendations for naming other objects in OceanBase Database to help developers standardize the naming of relevant database objects.

## Index naming

This section describes the recommended naming conventions for common indexes, unique indexes, primary keys, and foreign keys.

* Common indexes

   We recommend that you name a common index in the format of "idx_table name (or abbreviation)_column name (or abbreviation)", for example, idx_dept_deptno.

* UNIQUE constraints

   We recommend that you name a unique index in the format of "uk_table name (or abbreviation)_column name (or abbreviation)", for example, uk_dept_deptno.

* PRIMARY KEY constraints

   We recommend that you name a primary key in the format of "pk_table name (or abbreviation)_primary key field", for example, pk_dept_deptno.

* FOREIGN KEY constraints

   We recommend that you name a foreign key in the format of "fk_table name (or abbreviation)_main table name (or abbreviation)_primary key field", for example, fk_teacher_student_id.

## View naming

We recommend that you name a view in the format of "v_table name (or abbreviation)_column name (or abbreviation)", for example, v_dept_deptno.

## Synonym naming

We recommend that you name a synonym in the format of "syn_table name (or abbreviation)", for example, syn_temp.

## Trigger naming

Triggers can be divided into AFTER triggers, BEFORE triggers, and INSTEAD OF triggers by feature. We recommend that you name the triggers based on their features.

* AFTER triggers

   We recommend that you name an AFTER trigger in the format of "tr_table name (or abbreviation)_aft_column name (or abbreviation)", for example, tr_dept_aft_deptno.

* BEFORE triggers

   We recommend that you name a BEFORE trigger in the format of "tr_table name (or abbreviation)_bef_column name (or abbreviation)", for example, tr_dept_bef_deptno.

* INSTEAD OF triggers

   We recommend that you name an INSTEAD OF trigger in the format of "tr_table name (or abbreviation)_ins_column name (or abbreviation)", for example, tr_dept_ins_deptno.

## Stored procedure naming

We recommend that you name a stored procedure in the format of "proc_table name (or abbreviation)" or "proc_feature name (or abbreviation)", for example, proc_temp or proc_out.

## Function naming

We recommend that you name a function in the format of "function name (or abbreviation)", for example, GetLineNo() and SetLineNo().

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Use the camelCase when you name a function. </p>
  </main>

## Sequence naming

We recommend that you name a sequence in the format of "seq_table name (or abbreviation)_column name (or abbreviation)", for example, seq_dept_deptno.
