# Change the password of a user

After a user is created, the administrator or the user can change the password of the user.

## Change the password of a user by using the ALTER USER statement

You can execute the `ALTER USER` statement to change the passwords of other users. To execute this statement, you must have the `UPDATE USER` privilege.

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../200.oracle-mode/400.view-the-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). If you do not have the required privileges, contact the administrator to obtain the privileges. For more information, see [Modify user privileges](../200.oracle-mode/500.modify-user-permissions-for-oralce-tenant-of-oracle-mode.md).

Syntax:

```sql
ALTER USER username IDENTIFIED BY password;
```

Example: Change the password of `sqluser01` to `******`.

```sql
obclient> ALTER USER sqluser01 IDENTIFIED BY ******;
```

For more information about the `ALTER USER` statement, see [ALTER USER](../../../../../400.development-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/100.ddl-of-oracle-mode/1200.alter-user-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Change the password of a user by using the SET PASSWORD statement

You can execute the `SET PASSWORD` statement to change your password or the passwords of other users.

Syntax:

```sql
SET PASSWORD [FOR user] = PASSWORD(password);
```

Notes:

* If the `FOR user` clause is not specified, this statement changes the password of the current user. Any logged-on user can change their password.

* If the `FOR user` clause is specified, this statement changes the password of the specified user. To change the password of the specified user, you must have the `CREATE USER` privilege.

   For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../200.oracle-mode/400.view-the-user-permissions-of-oracle-mode.md). If you do not have the required privileges, contact the administrator to obtain the privileges. For more information, see [Modify user privileges](../200.oracle-mode/500.modify-user-permissions-for-oralce-tenant-of-oracle-mode.md).

Example: Change the password of `sqluser01` to `******`.

```sql
obclient> SET PASSWORD for sqluser01 = PASSWORD(******);
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

For more information about the `SET PASSWORD` statement, see [SET PASSWORD](../../../../../400.development-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/300.dcl-of-oracle-mode/3300.set-password-of-oracle-mode.md).
