# Use a DBLink to access data in a remote database

You can use a DBLink to access objects, such as tables, views, and synonyms, in a remote database.

## Prerequisites

You have created a DBLink. For more information about how to create a DBLink, see [Create a DBLink](../900.manage-dblink-of-oracle-mode/100.create-a-dblink-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Access data of tables in a remote database

Execute the `SELECT... FROM table name@DBLink name` statement to access data in a table in the remote database. Sample SQL statement:

```sql
SELECT select_expr_list
      FROM table_name@dblink_name
      WHERE where_conditions;

select_expr_list:
    table_name.*
    | table_alias_name.*
    | expr [[AS] column_alias_name]
```

Parameters:

* `select_expr_list`: the expressions or column names to be queried. Separate the column names with commas (,). An asterisk (\*) indicates all columns.

   * `table_name.*`: all columns in the specified table or view.

   * `table_alias_name.`: the alias of the table or view.

   * `expr [[AS] column_alias_name]`: the alias of the column or expression that you want to query. `AS` is optional.

* `table_name @ dblink_name`: the tables to be queried in the remote database. Separate the tables with commas (,).

* `where_conditions`: the filter condition, which is optional. Only the data that meets the condition is returned.

For more information about the SQL statements for querying DBLinks, see [SIMPLE SELECT](../../../../400.development-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/900.sql-statement-of-oracle-mode/200.dml-of-oracle-mode/500.select-of-oracle-mode/100.simple-select-of-oracle-mode.md).

Example: Use a DBLink named `my_link` to query data of the `tbl1` table in the remote database:

```sql
obclient> SELECT * FROM tbl1@my_link;
```

## More information

For more information about operations on DBLinks, see the following topics:

* [Create a DBLink](../900.manage-dblink-of-oracle-mode/100.create-a-dblink-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [View existing DBLinks](../900.manage-dblink-of-oracle-mode/200.view-a-dblink-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [Use a DBLink to modify data in a remote database](../900.manage-dblink-of-oracle-mode/400.update-data-in-remote-database-by-a-dblink-of-oracle-mode.md)

* [Drop a DBLink](../900.manage-dblink-of-oracle-mode/500.delete-a-dblink-of-oracle-mode.md)
