Use SSH to log on without a password (optional) 
====================================================================

This topic describes how to log on OBServers in a cluster through SSH without using the password. Skip this topic if you install OceanBase Database on a single server other than the central control server. 

Glossary 
-----------------------------

* Central control server

  The server that stores the installation package and cluster configuration information of OceanBase Database.
  

* Target server

  The server where you want to install OceanBase Database.
  




Prerequisite 
---------------------------------

You have the root user privileges on the target server.

Procedure 
------------------------------

You can take the following steps to set up password-free logon through SSH:

1. Run the following command on the central control server to check whether the key exists:

   ```bash
   ls ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
   ```

   

   If yes, you do not need to generate a new private SSH key.
   

2. Optional. Run the following command on the central control server to generate the public and private SSH keys:

   ```bash
   ssh-keygen -t rsa
   ```

   

3. Run the following command on the central control server to upload the public key to the `.ssh` folder:

   ```bash
   scp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub root@<server_ip>:~/.ssh/
   ```

   

4. Run the following command on the target server to write the public key to the authorized_keys file:

   ```bash
   cat /root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub >> /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
   ```

   

5. Run the following command on the central control server to log on to the target server:

   ```bash
   ssh root@<server_ip>
   ```

   

6. Repeat steps 3 - 5 to set password-free SSH access for every server.

   



**Notice**

You only need to run the preceding commands on the central control server.

Appendix: reference scripts 
------------------------------------------------

We recommend that you use the following scripts to run commands and copy files in batches in a cluster. 

* Use the following script to batch copy files. 

  ```bash
  #/usr/bin/bash
  
  
  
  hosts=(
      "ob001"
      "ob002"
      "ob003"
      "obdriver"
      )
      for host in "${hosts[@]}"
      do
  
          echo "begin to scp " $@ " on " $host
          scp -r $1 $host:$2
      done
  ```

  

* Use the following script to batch run commands. 

  ```bash
  /usr/bin/bash
  
  
  
  hosts=(
      "ob001"
      "ob002"
      "ob003"
      "obdriver"
      )
      for host in "${hosts[@]}"
      do
          echo "begin to run " $@ " on " $host
          ssh $host $@
      done
  ```

  



**Notice**



You must replace the host IDs in the script with the actual IDs of your host.
