# Overview

OceanBase Database is Ant Group's proprietary native distributed database management system (DBMS), which is the only DBMS in the world that has broken both TPC-C and TPC-H records. It has been supporting the Double 11 Shopping Festival (the biggest online shopping festival in the world) for 9 consecutive years. OceanBase Database has innovatively launched a new city-level disaster recovery standard of "Five IDCs across Three Cities". With an integrated architecture, it achieves both the scalability of distributed architecture and the performance of centralized architecture. 

OceanBase Database supports both online transaction processing (OLTP) and online analytical processing (OLAP) workloads with a set of engines. It features strong data consistency, high availability, high performance, and online scalability. It has a strong compatibility with SQL standards and mainstream relational databases such as MySQL and Oracle. In addition, OceanBase Database is cost-effective and transparent to applications. Up to now, OceanBase Database has helped more than 400 customers to upgrade their mission-critical systems.

## Core features

### High availability

OceanBase Database has launched a solution of "Five IDCs across Three Cities", which sets forth a new standard for lossless disaster recovery in the financial industry. The DBMS supports lossless disaster recovery not only within the same city but also across different cities, which reaches the financial-grade disaster recovery standard level 6 (Recovery Point Objective (RPO) = 0, Recovery Time Objective (RTO) < 8 seconds).

### High compatibility

OceanBase Database is compatible with not only Oracle and MySQL's common features but also their advanced features, such as procedural language and triggers. OceanBase Migration Assessment (OMA) and OceanBase Migration Service (OMS) are also provided to support migration assessment and data migration respectively. In addition, OMS supports reverse synchronization to ensure data migration security, especially in mission-critical scenarios.

### Horizontal scaling

OceanBase Database supports rapid scale-in or scale-out to meet different business needs, and uses a quasi in-memory architecture to achieve high performance. An OceanBase Database cluster can hold thousands of nodes, supporting a maximum data volume of more than 3 PB for a single cluster, and a maximum number of a trillion rows for a single table.

### Low costs

Based on the log-structured merge-tree (LSM-tree), OceanBase Database adopts a high-compression storage engine, which reduces the storage costs by 70% to 90%. This DBMS supports the multi-tenant feature, which means that the same cluster can serve different businesses with the data of one tenant isolated from that of others. With these features, the deployment and O&M costs are reduced.

### Real-time HTAP

OceanBase Database uses the same database engine to perform online real-time transactions and real-time analysis on the same set of data. Multiple replicas of the same set of data can be stored in different forms for different purposes. This fundamentally ensures data consistency.

### High reliability

OceanBase Database boasts the integrated architecture for both centralized and distributed modes. The OceanBase team has developed OceanBase Database in-house for 12 years and has full control over its source code. OceanBase Database has been supporting the Double 11 Shopping Festival for 9 consecutive years.

### High security
OceanBase Database has a complete role and permission management system, which provides transparent encryption of data for storage and communication. It implements most of the security functions required by enterprises, such as SSL, auditing, Label Security, IP allowlist.