# Compatibility with MySQL

This topic describes the compatibility between OceanBase Database's MySQL mode and native MySQL Database.

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database is compatible with most features and statements of MySQL 5.7 and 8.0. Some features are not supported because of their limited popularity or the product architecture differences between the two databases. This topic will cover the following aspects of compatibility between OceanBase Database and MySQL Database:

* Data types

* SQL syntax

* Procedural languages

* System views

* Character sets and collations

* Functions and expressions

* Partition support

* Backup and restore

* Storage engine

* Optimizer

* Unsupported features

## Data types

OceanBase Database supports the following data types:

* Numeric data types

   * Integer types: `BOOL`/`BOOLEAN`, `TINYINT`, `SMALLINT`, `MEDIUMINT`, `INT`/`INTEGER`, and `BIGINT`

   * Fixed-point types: `DECIMAL` and `NUMERIC`

   * Floating-point types: `FLOAT` and `DOUBLE`

   * Bit-value type: `BIT`

* Date and time types: `DATETIME`, `TIMESTAMP`, `DATE`, `TIME`, and `YEAR`

* Character types: `CHAR`, `VARCHAR`, `BINARY`, and `VARBINARY`

* Large object types: `TINYBLOB`, `BLOB`, `MEDIUMBLOB`, and `LONGBLOB`

* Text types: `TINYTEXT`, `TEXT`, `MEDIUMTEXT`, and `LONGTEXT`

* Enumeration type: `ENUM`

* Set type: `SET`

* JSON data types

* Spatial data types

## SQL syntax

**SELECT**

* OceanBase Database supports most query features, including single- and multi-table queries, subqueries, inner join, semi join, outer join, grouping, aggregation, and regular data mining functions such as probability and linear regression.

* The following set operators can be used to process the results returned by multiple `SELECT` operations: `UNION`, `UNION ALL`, `MINUS`, `EXCEPT`, and `INTERSECT`.

* You can use the following syntax to view an execution plan:

   ```sql
   EXPLAIN [explain_type] dml_statement;
   explain_type:
       BASIC
     | OUTLINE
     | EXTENDED
     | EXTENDED_NOADDR
     | PARTITIONS
     | FORMAT = {TRADITIONAL| JSON}

   dml_statement:
       SELECT statement
     | DELETE statement
     | INSERT statement
     | REPLACE statement
     | UPDATE statement
   ```

* `SELECT ... FOR SHARE ...` statements are not supported.

**INSERT**

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-row inserts. It also supports inserting data into a specified partition.

* OceanBase Database supports `INSERT INTO ... SELECT ...` statements.


**UPDATE**

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-column updates.

* OceanBase Database supports updates by using subqueries.

* OceanBase Database supports set updates.


**DELETE**

* OceanBase Database supports single- and multi-table deletion.


**TRUNCATE**

* OceanBase Database allows you to truncate a specified table.

* OceanBase Database does not support truncating a table that has a transaction in progress or a table that is being locked.

## Procedural languages

OceanBase Database is compatible with most PL features of MySQL Database, including:

* Data types
* Stored procedures
* Custom functions
* Triggers
* Exception handling

OceanBase Database also provides particular MySQL PL packages, such as `DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER`, `DBMS_STATS`, `DBMS_UDR`, `DBMS_XPLAN`, and `DBMS_WORKLOAD_REPOSITORY`.

For more information about PL features, see [PL reference](../700.reference/500.sql-reference/300.pl-reference/100.what-is-pl/100.pl-introduction.md).

## System views

OceanBase Database implements most views of two internal databases: `information_schema` and `mysql`. However, due to the differences from MySQL Database in architecture, OceanBase Database cannot implement all views of MySQL Database or ensure consistency with MySQL Database in all column meanings of the views.

For more information about system views, see [Overview of system views](../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/600.transaction-in-develop-of-mysql-mode/100.transaction-management-overview-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Character sets and collations

OceanBase Database is compatible with some character sets and collations of MySQL Database.

* Supported character sets are the binary, utf8mb4, gbk, utf16, gb18030, latin1, and gb18030_2022 character sets.

* The following table describes the supported collations.

   | Collation | Character set | Description |
   |--------------------|---------|-----------------------------------------------|
   | utf8mb4_general_ci | utf8mb4 | A general collation.  |
   | utf8mb4_bin | utf8mb4 | A binary collation.  |
   | utf8mb4_unicode_ci | utf8mb4 | A collation that is based on Unicode Collation Algorithm (UCA).  |
   | binary | binary | A binary collation.  |
   | gbk_chinese_ci | gbk | A collation for Chinese.  |
   | gbk_bin | gbk | A binary collation.  |
   | utf16_general_ci | utf16 | A general collation.  |
   | utf16_bin | utf16 | A binary collation.  |
   | utf16_unicode_ci | utf16 | A collation that is based on Unicode Collation Algorithm (UCA).  |
   | gb18030_chinese_ci | gb18030 | A collation for Chinese.  |
   | gb18030_bin | gb18030 | A binary collation.  |
   | latin1_swedish_ci | latin1 | A collation for Swedish/Finnish.  |
   | latin1_bin | latin1 | A binary collation.  |
   | gb18030_2022_bin | gb18030_2022 | A binary collation.  |
   | gb18030_2022_chinese_ci | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by Pinyin. The value is case-insensitive. This is the default collation for this character set in MySQL mode.  |
   | gb18030_2022_chinese_cs | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by Pinyin. The value is case-sensitive.  |
   | gb18030_2022_radical_ci | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by radicals. The value is case-insensitive.  |
   | gb18030_2022_radical_cs | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by radicals. The value is case-sensitive.  |
   | gb18030_2022_stroke_ci | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by strokes. The value is case-insensitive.  |
   | gb18030_2022_stroke_cs | gb18030_2022 | A collation that sorts data by strokes. The value is case-sensitive.  |

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>OceanBase Database Community Edition does not support <code>utf8mb4_unicode_ci</code> and <code>utf16_unicode_ci</code>. </p>
  </main>

## Functions

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database does not support the following functions:

* String functions: `LOAD_FILE()` and `MATCH()`.

* XML functions: `ExtractValue()` and `UpdateXML()`.

* Locking functions: `GET_LOCK()`, `IS_FREE_LOCK()`, `IS_USED_LOCK()`, `RELEASE_ALL_LOCKS()`, and `RELEASE_LOCK()`.

* Other functions: `MASTER_POS_WAIT()`.

The analytic (window) functions supported by OceanBase Database are a superset of those supported by MySQL Database. This means that OceanBase Database supports all analytic (window) functions supported by MySQL Database.

## Partition support

The partition support feature of OceanBase Database is different from that of MySQL Database.

* OceanBase Database supports partitioning, template-based subpartitioning, and non-template-based subpartitioning. MySQL Database does not support non-template-based subpartitioning.

* OceanBase Database supports subpartitioning by Hash, Key, Range, Range Columns, List, and List Columns. MySQL Database supports subpartitioning only by Hash and Key.

For more information about partitions, see [Partion overview](../700.reference/300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/300.manage-partitions-of-mysql-mode/100.partition-overview-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Backup and restore

OceanBase Database is compatible with some backup and restore features of MySQL Database.

* OceanBase Database supports full backup and incremental backup.

* Cluster-level backup and restore are not supported.

* OceanBase Database supports hot backup but not cold backup.

* OceanBase Database supports table-level restore, but does not support backup and restore for some databases within tenants.

* OceanBase Database does not support validation of backup data.

## Storage engine

OceanBase Database uses an LSM-Tree-based storage engine, whereas MySQL Database uses data block-based InnoDB or MyISAM.

## Optimizer

The optimizer of OceanBase Database is different from that of MySQL Database in the following aspects:

* Commands to query execution plans

   * Only the `ID`, `OPERATOR`, `NAME`, `EST. ROWS`, and `COST` columns and the operator details are exported.

   * OceanBase Database does not support using the `SHOW WARNINGS` statement to display additional information.

* Statistics query

   * The optimizer allows you to manually query the histogram statistics information about column values in the data dictionary table by using the `ANALYZE TABLE` statement.

   * The optimizer automatically displays views of the table statistics and column statistics.

* Supported query rewrite and optimization features

   * Outer join optimization

   * Outer join simplification

   * Block Nested-Loop (BNL) and Batched Key Access (BKA) joins

   * Conditional filtering

   * Constant folding optimization

   * `IS NULL` optimization (indexes do not store `NULL` values)

   * `ORDER BY` optimization

   * `GROUP BY` optimization

   * Elimination by using `DISTINCT`

   * `LIMIT` pushdown

   * Window function optimization

   * Avoiding full table scan

   * Predicate pushdown

* Optimizer hint mechanisms

   * Join-order optimizer hints

   * Table-level optimizer hints

   * Index-level optimizer hints

   * OceanBase Database supports `INDEX HINT`, `FULL HINT`, `ORDERED HINT`, and `LEADING HINT`, but does not support `USE INDEX` or `FORCE INDEX`.

* OceanBase Database is compatible with the parallel execution capabilities of MySQL Database such as parallel query, parallel replication, and parallel write. OceanBase Database also supports parallel operations such as parallel aggregate, parallel join, parallel grouping, and parallel sorting.

* OceanBase Database supports plan caching and precompilation, which are not supported by MySQL Database.

For more information about the optimizer, see [SQL tuning](../700.reference/1000.performance-tuning-guide/500.sql-optimization/100.sql-request-execution-process.md).

## Unsupported features

* `SELECT ... FOR SHARE ...` statements are not supported.

* Cluster-level backup and restore, cold backup, backup and restore for some databases within tenants, and validation of backup data

* Using the `SHOW WARNINGS` statement in the command that returns the execution plan of an SQL statement
