# JSON_VALUE

## Purpose

`JSON_VALUE()` extracts a value in a JSON document from the specified path and returns the extracted value. You can also set the function to convert the extracted value to the desired data type.

## Syntax

```sql
JSON_VALUE(json_doc, path [RETURNING type] [on_empty] [on_error])

on_empty:
    {NULL | ERROR | DEFAULT value} ON EMPTY

on_error:
    {NULL | ERROR | DEFAULT value} ON ERROR
```

## Description

### Parameters

The parameters are described as follows:

* `json_doc` specifies the JSON document.

* `path` is a JSON path that points to a location in the document, and must be a string.

* `type` supports the following data types:

   * `FLOAT`

   * `DOUBLE`

   * `DECIMAL`

   * `SIGNED`

   * `UNSIGNED`

   * `DATE`

   * `TIME`

   * `DATETIME`

   * `YEAR` (Note that `YEAR(1)` and `YEAR(2)` are not supported.)

   * `CHAR`

   * `JSON`

* If you do not use a `RETURNING` clause, the data type of the return value of the function is `VARCHAR(512)`.
   If you do not specify the character set for the return type, `JSON_VALUE()` uses the utf8mb4 character set and a binary collation, and the return value is case-sensitive.
   If you specify the utf8mb4 character set for the result, the server uses the default collation for the character set, and the return value is case-insensitive.

* You can specify the `on_empty` clause to determine the behavior of `JSON_VALUE()` when no data is found at the specified path. The supported values of this clause are as follows:

   * `NULL ON EMPTY`: specifies that `JSON_VALUE()` returns `NULL`. This is the default value of `ON EMPTY`.

   * `DEFAULT value ON EMPTY`: returns the specified `value` whose type must match the value of the return type.

   * `ERROR ON EMPTY`: returns an error.

* When an error occurs, `on_error` takes one of the following values:

   * `NULL ON ERROR`: JSON_VALUE() returns `NULL`. If you do not specify the `ON ERROR` clause, this is the default behavior.

   * `DEFAULT value ON ERROR`: returns the specified `value` whose type must match the value of the return type.

   * `ERROR ON ERROR`: returns an error.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>When you specify the <code>ON EMPTY</code> clause, you must put it before all <code>ON ERROR</code> clauses. </p>
  </main>

### Error handling

`JSON_VALUE()` checks the validity of all JSON inputs of documents and paths. If an input is invalid, an SQL error is returned without triggering the `ON ERROR` clause.

The `ON ERROR` clause is triggered if one of the following events occurs:

* When you try to extract an object or array, the specified path is parsed into multiple paths in the JSON document.

* A conversion error occurs when you, for example, try to convert `'asdf'` to an `UNSIGNED` value.

* Data is truncated.

Even if you specify `NULL ON ERROR` or `DEFAULT ... ON ERROR`, a conversion error always triggers an alert.

When the source JSON document specified for `json_doc` contains no data at the specified `path`, the `ON EMPTY` clause is triggered.

## Examples

```sql
obclient> SELECT JSON_VALUE('{"fname": "Smith", "lname": "Will"}', '$.fname');
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_VALUE('{"fname": "Smith", "lname": "Will"}', '$.fname') |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| Smith                                                        |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set

obclient> SELECT JSON_VALUE('{"item": "shoes", "price": "69.73"}', '$.price'
     RETURNING DECIMAL(4,2)) AS price;
+-------+
| price |
+-------+
| 69.73 |
+-------+
1 row in set
```
