# log_tool

Commit logs (clogs) in OceanBase Database are similar to redo logs in a conventional database. They persist the transaction data when transactions are committed. The transaction data is the record of transaction modifications to the database. log_tool parses and prints clog files. This topic describes how to use log_tool.

log_tool is equivalent to clog_tool in earlier versions and is updated for adaptation in OceanBase Database V4.x. Specifically, some command formats are modified and some features are deleted.

## log_tool commands

Currently, log_tool is integrated into ob_admin. You can run the `ob_admin` command to call log_tool.

The following table describes the general commands of log_tool.

| Command | Description |
|---------------|----------------------------------------|
| `dump_log` | Parses and prints the specified clog file.  |
| `dump_tx_format` | Parses the specified clog file and prints the file in a format that is similar to SQL statements.  |
| `dump_filter` | Parses the specified clog file and prints the log records that meet the specified conditions.  |
| `stat` | Parses the specified clog file and prints the statistics of the file.  |

### dump_log

```Shell
ob_admin log_tool dump_log <clog_file_name>
```

Take note of the following considerations:

* You can run the `dump_log` command to parse and print the specified clog files and archive files. If you want to parse multiple files, separate the file names with spaces.

* You must replace the `clog_file_name` string with the actual file name. The path of the file can be included in `clog_file_name`. Here are some examples:

   * To parse and print a single clog file that is named `101` and located in the current directory, run the following command:

      ```Shell
      ob_admin log_tool dump_log 101
      ```

   * To parse and print multiple clog files that are named `101` and `103` and located in the current directory, run the following command:

      ```Shell
      ob_admin log_tool dump_log 101 103
      ```

   * To parse and print multiple clog files that are consecutively named `101`, `102`, `103`, and `104` and located in the current directory, run the following command:

      ```Shell
      ob_admin log_tool dump_log {101..104}
      ```

### dump_filter

```Shell
ob_admin log_tool dump_filter '<filter_name>' <clog_file_name>
```

Take note of the following considerations:

* You can use `dump_filter` to print the transaction-related content in clog files based on conditions.

* For more information about `<clog_file_name>`, see [dump_log](#dump_log).

* You can filter log records by specifying filter conditions in the `filter_name` field. The following table describes the valid values of `filter_name`.

   | Filter condition | Description |
   |----------------|---------|
   | `tablet_id` | The ID of the table to use. |
   | `tx_id` | The ID of the transaction to use. |


   You can specify one or multiple filter conditions in the `filter_name` field. If you specify multiple filter conditions, separate the conditions with semicolons (;). Here are some examples:

   * Assume that `tablet_id` is set to `123`, and the clog file is named `101` and located in the current directory. Run the following command to parse and print this clog file.

      ```Shell
      ob_admin log_tool dump_filter 'tablet_id=123' 101
      ```

   * Assume that `tablet_id` is set to `123`, `tx_id` is set to `26058724`, and the clog file to be parsed is named `101` and located in the current directory. Run the following command to parse and print this clog file.

      ```Shell
      ob_admin log_tool dump_filter 'tablet_id=123;tx_id=26058724' 101
      ```

### stat

```Shell
ob_admin log_tool stat <clog_file_name>
```

Take note of the following considerations:

* You can use the `stat` command to obtain statistics of the specified clog file, including the file size, number of records, and number of transactions.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>By using the <code>CLOG_TOOL_BREAK_ON_FAIL</code> environment variable, clog_tool can control whether to directly exit or ignore errors and continue. When <code>CLOG_TOOL_BREAK_ON_FAIL</code> is set to true, clog_tool directly exits. When <code>CLOG_TOOL_BREAK_ON_FAIL</code> is set to false, clog_tool ignores errors and continues parsing the specified clog file. </p>
  </main>

* For more information about `<clog_file_name>`, see [dump_log](#dump_log).
