# Allocate a resource pool to a tenant

After a resource pool is created, you can allocate it to a tenant when you create the tenant. You can also allocate an unused resource pool to a tenant when you modify the resource pool list of the tenant.

## Allocate a resource pool when you create a tenant

When you create a tenant, you can allocate an unused resource pool to the tenant. Sample statement:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TENANT IF NOT EXISTS test_tenant charset='utf8mb4', replica_num=3, zone_list=('zone1','zone2','zone3'), primary_zone='zone1;zone2,zone3', resource_pool_list=('pool1')
```

Parameters:

* You can bind a resource pool only to one tenant, while a tenant can have multiple resource pools. However, when you create a tenant, you can specify only one resource pool for the tenant.
* The total amount of resources allocated to a tenant in a zone is calculated as follows: Unit configs × Unit quantity.

For more information about how to create a tenant, see [Create a tenant](../../4.manage-tenants/2.create-a-tenant.md).

## Allocate a resource pool when you modify the resource pool list of a tenant

You can execute the `ALTER TENANT` statement to allocate an unused resource pool to a tenant:

```sql
ALTER TENANT tenant_name RESOURCE_POOL_LIST [=](pool_name [, pool_name...]) ;
```

Notes:

* This statement can be executed only by the administrator of the `sys` tenant.

* This statement can add or delete only one resource pool specified by `RESOURCE_POOL_LIST` at a time.

* When you add a resource pool for a tenant, the zone to which the resource pool belongs must be different from the zones to which the existing resource pools belong.

Usually, you can modify the resource pool list of a tenant to add resource pools for the tenant when the number of replicas of the tenant needs to be increased.

### Background information

Assume that the current cluster has three zones, which are `z1`, `z2`, and `z3`. The three zones belong to the same region, and each zone has one OBServer node. `tenant1` in the cluster is a user tenant. Replica distribution of the tenant is as follows: `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3', resource_pool_list=('pool1');`. Based on business needs, the number of replicas of `tenant1` must be increased from 3 to 5. That is, the locality of the tenant must be changed from `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3` to `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5`.

### Sample procedure

1. Create `z4` and `z5` in the cluster that includes three zones: `z1`, `z2`, and `z3`.

   For more information about how to create zones in a cluster, see [Create or delete a zone](../../1.manage-clusters/4.manage-zones-in-a-cluster/2.add-or-remove-a-zone.md).

2. Add an OBServer node to each of the `z4` and `z5` zones.

   For more information about how to add an OBServer node to a zone, see [Add a node](../../1.manage-clusters/5.manage-observer/1.add-observer.md).

3. Log on to the `sys` tenant as the `root` user, and add resources for tenant `tenant1` in zones `z4` and `z5`.

   1. Before you add resources, make sure that resource units and resource pools are available.

      ```sql
      obclient>CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit2 MAX_CPU 1, MIN_CPU 1, MEMORY_SIZE '5G', MAX_IOPS 1024, MIN_IOPS 1024, IOPS_WEIGHT 0,LOG_DISK_SIZE '2G';

      obclient>CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 unit = 'unit2', unit_num = 1, zone_list=('z4','z5');
      ```

   2. Add resources to `z4` and `z5`.

      ```sql
      obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 RESOURCE_POOL_LIST =('pool1', 'pool2') ;
      ```

4. Modify the locality of the tenant to add replicas.

   Based on the locality modification rule, you can add only one zone at a time. For more information about the locality modification rule, see [Locality overview](../../../../../6.manage/3.replica-management/2.replica-distribution/1.locality-overview.md).

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4';

   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5';
   ```
