# Modify a resource pool

You can modify the `UNIT`, `UNIT_NUM`, and `ZONE_LIST` parameters for a resource pool.

## Limitations

Since OceanBase Database V4.0, the number of resource units must be the same for all resource pools of a tenant. After resource pools are allocated to a tenant, you cannot separately modify the `UNIT_NUM` parameter for a resource pool. You can only increase the value of the `UNIT_NUM` parameter for all resource pools of the tenant.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to modify the resource pool.

   Sample statement:

   ```sql
   ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool_name
   UNIT [=] unit_name,
   UNIT_NUM [=] unit_num [DELETE UNIT = (unit_id_list)],
   ZONE_LIST [=] ('zone'[, 'zone' ...]);
   ```

   Notes:

   * You can execute this statement to modify only one parameter at a time.

   * The `UNIT_NUM` parameter specifies the number of resource units in each zone. The value of this parameter must be less than or equal to the number of OBServer nodes in the zone.

      Before a resource pool is allocated to a tenant, you can use the `ALTER RESOURCE POOL` statement to increase or decrease the value of the `UNIT_NUM` parameter for this resource pool. After a resource pool is allocated to a tenant, you can only use the `ALTER RESOURCE TENANT` statement to modify the `UNIT_NUM` parameter for all resource pools in the tenant.

      After a resource pool is allocated to a tenant, you can execute the following statement to modify the `UNIT_NUM` parameter for all resource pools in the tenant.

      ```sql
      ALTER RESOURCE TENANT tenant_name UNIT_NUM [=] unit_num;
      ```

   * The `ZONE_LIST` parameter specifies the zones allowed to use the resource pool.

   Assume that the following resource units and resource pool are available in the current environment:

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit1 MAX_CPU 6,MIN_CPU 6, MEMORY_SIZE '36G', MAX_IOPS 1024, MIN_IOPS 1024, IOPS_WEIGHT 0, LOG_DISK_SIZE '2G';

   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT 'unit1', UNIT_NUM 2, ZONE_LIST ('z1','z2','z3');
   ```

   Examples:

   * Replace resource unit `unit1` of resource pool `pool1` with `unit2`.

      ```shell
      obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit2 MAX_CPU 8, MIN_CPU=8, MEMORY_SIZE '40G';

      obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 unit='unit2';
      ```

   * Change the number of resource units in each zone to 3 for all resource pools in the tenant.

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER RESOURCE TENANT pool1 UNIT_NUM = 3;
      ```

   * Extend `ZONE_LIST` of resource pool `pool1` to `'z1','z2','z3','z4'`.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3','z4');
      ```

   * You can modify only one resource pool parameter at a time. If you modify two parameters at a time, the system returns an error.

      ```sql
      obclient> ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 unit='unit1', zone_list=('HANGZHOU_1');
      ERROR 1235 (0A000): alter unit_num, resource_unit, zone_list in one cmd not supported
      ```
