|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name|mysqlclient|
|dir-name-en|mysqlclient|
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Connect to OceanBase Database by using mysqlclient

This topic describes how to build an application by using mysqlclient, OceanBase Database, and Python. It will cover basic operations such as creating tables, inserting data, and querying data.

To download the project code, click [python-mysqlclient](https://obbusiness-private.oss-cn-shanghai.aliyuncs.com/doc/img/observer-enterprise/V4.2.0/3.develop/demo/python/python-mysqlclient.zip).


## Prerequisites

* Python 3.x and pip were installed. 
* OceanBase Database was installed. 

## Procedure

1. Obtain the connection information for OceanBase Database.
2. Get familiar with the `python-mysqlclient` project code.
3. Check Python and pip.
4. Install the necessary Python library.
5. Create a database in OceanBase Database.
6. Modify the database connection information in the `config.py` file.
7. Run the `main.py` file.
8. Perform database operations on the CLI.

### Step 1: Obtain the connection information for OceanBase Database

Contact the OceanBase deployment team or administrator to get the required database connection details.

**For example:**

```shell
obclient -hxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -P2883 -uroot@mysql001#cluster_name -p****** -Dtest
```

**The parameters are described as follows:**
  
* `-h`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database. If you connect to OceanBase Database by using an OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP), this parameter specifies the ODP address. If you connect to OceanBase Database directly, this parameter specifies the IP address of an OBServer node.
* `-P`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. If you connect to OceanBase Database by using an ODP, the default value is 2883. (You can customize the value when you deploy the ODP.) If you connect to OceanBase Database directly, the default value is 2881. (You can customize the value when you deploy OceanBase Database).
* `-u`: the connection account for the tenant. If you connect to OceanBase Database by using an ODP, the format is `username@tenant name#cluster name` or `cluster name:tenant name:username`. If you connect to OceanBase Database directly, the format is `username@tenant name`.
* `-p`: the account password.
* `-D`: the name of the database to be accessed. You can change it to the business database.

For more information about connection strings, see [Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using the mysql client](../../100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/200.connect-to-an-oceanbase-tenant-by-using-a-mysql-client-of-mysql-mode.md).

### Step 2: Get familiar with the python-mysqlclient project code.

Click [python-mysqlclient](https://obbusiness-private.oss-cn-shanghai.aliyuncs.com/doc/img/observer-enterprise/V4.2.0/3.develop/demo/python/python-mysqlclient.zip) to download the project code, which is a compressed package named `python-mysqlclient.zip`. 

After decompressing it, you will get a folder named `python-mysqlclient` with the following directory structure:

```shell
python-mysqlclient
├── config.py
├── db.py
├── main.py
└── requirements.txt
```

**Files in this directory are described as follows:**

* `config.py`: This file is used to manage database connection configurations. 
* `db.py`: This file is used to manipulate databases. For example, you can use the file to create tables, insert data, and query data. 
* `main.py`: This file is the entrance to the application and provides a simple command-line interface (CLI). You can enter commands on the CLI to perform corresponding operations. 
* `requirements.txt`: This file lists the Python libraries required for the project. 

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The <code>requirements.txt</code> file in the package obtained in this topic lists only the version requirements of the mysqlclient library. You can run the <code>pip install -r requirements.txt</code> command to automatically install the required library. </p>
    </main>

#### Introduction to the config.py file

When you connect to a database by using Python, it is necessary to specify the database connection parameters. These parameters can be stored in a separate configuration file, such as `config.py`. By encapsulating these parameters into a dictionary, it avoids the hassle of repeatedly writing these parameters in each file. Instead, you can directly reference this dictionary in other Python files to connect to the database.

The code in the `config.py` file obtained in this document defines a dictionary variable named `OCEANBASE_CONFIG`, which is used to manage the connection parameters for OceanBase Database.

**The code is as follows:**

```python
OCEANBASE_CONFIG = {
    'host': 'localhost',
    'port': port,
    'user': 'user_name',
    'password': '',
    'database': 'db_name',
    'charset': 'utf8mb4'
}
```

**The parameters are described as follows**

* `host`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database. If you connect to OceanBase Database directly, this parameter specifies the IP address of an OBServer node. If you connect to OceanBase Database by using an ODP, this parameter specifies the ODP address. 
* `port`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. If you connect to OceanBase Database directly, the default value is `2881`. (You can customize the value when you deploy OceanBase Database.) If you connect to OceanBase Database by using an ODP, the default value is `2883`. (You can customize the value when you deploy the ODP.) 
* `user`: the username for connecting to OceanBase Database. If you connect to OceanBase Database directly, the format is **{username}@{tenant name}**. If you connect to OceanBase Database by using an ODP, the format is **{username}@{tenant name}#{cluster name}**. For more information about how to connect to OceanBase Database, see [Overview](../../100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md).
 
* `password`: the password for connecting to OceanBase Database. 
* `database`: the name of the database to be connected to. 
* `charset`: the character set for connecting to OceanBase Database. 

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>You need to modify the parameter values in the sample code based on the actual environment and database settings.</p>
</main>

#### Introduction to the db.py file

The `db.py` file is a module written in the Python language that encapsulates database operations. You can use it to implement CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on the database.

This file includes the following parts:

1. Import the MySQLdb module and database connection parameters.

    **The code is as follows:**

    ```python
    import MySQLdb
    from config import OCEANBASE_CONFIG
    ```

2. Define the function for creating a table.

    Define the `create_table` function to create a table named `test_tbl1` in OceanBase Database. Use the `with` statement to manage the life cycle of database connections and cursor objects. This ensures that database connections and cursor objects can be securely closed without memory leaks. Define an SQL statement, execute the statement, and print the execution result or error message. 

    **The code is as follows:**

    ```python
    def create_table():
        with MySQLdb.connect(**OCEANBASE_CONFIG) as conn:
            with conn.cursor() as cursor:
                try:
                    create_table_sql = """
                        CREATE TABLE test_tbl1 (
                            id INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
                            name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
                            age INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
                            PRIMARY KEY (id)
                        ) ENGINE=OCEANBASE AUTO_INCREMENT=1
                    """
                    cursor.execute(create_table_sql)

                    print("Table created successfully")
                except MySQLdb.Error as err:
                    print(err)
    ```

3. Define the function for inserting data.

    Define the `insert_record` function to insert a record into a specified table. The record contains the `name` and `age` fields. Use the `with` statement to manage the life cycle of database connections and cursor objects. This ensures that database connections and cursor objects can be securely closed without memory leaks. Define an SQL statement, execute the statement, commit the transaction, and print the execution result or error message. 

    **The code is as follows:**

    ```python
    def insert_record(table_name, name, age):
        with MySQLdb.connect(**OCEANBASE_CONFIG) as conn:
            with conn.cursor() as cursor:
                try:
                    insert_sql = f"INSERT INTO {table_name} (name, age) VALUES (%s, %s)"
                    cursor.execute(insert_sql, (name, age))
                    conn.commit()

                    print("Record inserted successfully")
                except MySQLdb.Error as err:
                    print(err)
    ```

4. Define the function for querying table data.

    Define the `select_all` function to query all records in a specified table. Use the `with` statement to manage the life cycle of database connections and cursor objects. This ensures that database connections and cursor objects can be securely closed without memory leaks. Define an SQL statement, execute the statement, traverse query results, and print all records. If an error occurs, capture the error and print the error message. 

    **The code is as follows:**

    ```python
    def select_all(table_name):
        with MySQLdb.connect(**OCEANBASE_CONFIG) as conn:
            with conn.cursor() as cursor:
                try:
                    select_sql = f"SELECT * FROM {table_name}"
                    cursor.execute(select_sql)
                    result = cursor.fetchall()
                    for row in result:
                        print(row)

                except MySQLdb.Error as err:
                    print(err)
    ```

#### Introduction to the main.py file

The `main.py` file in this topic shows how to use Python and MySQLdb to manipulate a database. The file provides a CLI where you can run commands to perform database operations. You can use this program to implement basic database operations such as creating tables, inserting records, and querying all records. 

This file includes the following parts:

1. Import the functions defined in the `db.py` file. 

    Import the `create_table`, `insert_record`, and `select_all` functions from the `db` module. 

    **The code is as follows:**

    ```python
    from db import create_table, insert_record, select_all
    ```

2. Define a function for manipulating databases.

    Define the `main` function to implement a simple CLI program for database manipulation. The program calls the `create_table` function to create a table named `test_tbl1`, and then enters a `while` loop to wait for you to enter a command. The program calls the corresponding function to insert or query data based on your command until you enter the `3` command to exit the program.  

    Command `1` is to insert data, `2` is to query data, and `3` is to exit the program. If you enter an invalid command, the program prompts you to re-enter a command. 

    **The code is as follows:**

    ```python
    def main():
        create_table()
        while True:
            print("Instruction: 1.Insert Data; 2.Query Data; 3.Exit.")

            command = input("Enter the command [1/2/3]> ")
            if command == "1":
                name = input("Enter name:")
                age = input("Enter age:")
                insert_record("test_tbl1", name, age)
            elif command == "2":
                select_all("test_tbl1")
            elif command == "3":
                break
            else:
                print("Invalid command, please enter command again [1/2/3]")
    ```

3. Set the application scenario of the `main` function. 


    Set the `main` function to be called only when the `main.py` file is directly run. If the `main` module is just imported into another module, the `main` function is not called.

    **The code is as follows:**

    ```python
    if __name__ == "__main__":
        main()
    ```

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>This setting can avoid automatic execution of the <code>main</code> function when the <code>main</code> module is imported, thus ensuring the reusability and extensibility of the program. </p>


#### Complete code examples

:::tab
tab config.py

```python
OCEANBASE_CONFIG = {
    'host': 'localhost',
    'port': port,
    'user': 'user_name',
    'password': '',
    'database': 'db_name',
    'charset': 'utf8mb4'
}
```

tab db.py

```python
import MySQLdb
from config import OCEANBASE_CONFIG


def create_table():
    with MySQLdb.connect(**OCEANBASE_CONFIG) as conn:
        with conn.cursor() as cursor:
            try:
                create_table_sql = """
                    CREATE TABLE test_tbl1 (
                        id INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
                        name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
                        age INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
                        PRIMARY KEY (id)
                    ) ENGINE=OCEANBASE AUTO_INCREMENT=1
                """
                cursor.execute(create_table_sql)

                print("Table created successfully")
            except MySQLdb.Error as err:
                print(err)


def insert_record(table_name, name, age):
    with MySQLdb.connect(**OCEANBASE_CONFIG) as conn:
        with conn.cursor() as cursor:
            try:
                insert_sql = f"INSERT INTO {table_name} (name, age) VALUES (%s, %s)"
                cursor.execute(insert_sql, (name, age))
                conn.commit()

                print("Record inserted successfully")
            except MySQLdb.Error as err:
                print(err)


def select_all(table_name):
    with MySQLdb.connect(**OCEANBASE_CONFIG) as conn:
        with conn.cursor() as cursor:
            try:
                select_sql = f"SELECT * FROM {table_name}"
                cursor.execute(select_sql)
                result = cursor.fetchall()
                for row in result:
                    print(row)

            except MySQLdb.Error as err:
                print(err)
```

tab main.py

```python
from db import create_table, insert_record, select_all

def main():
    create_table()
    while True:
        print("Instruction: 1.Insert Data; 2.Query Data; 3.Exit.")

        command = input("Enter the command [1/2/3]> ")
        if command == "1":
            name = input("Enter name:")
            age = input("Enter age:")
            insert_record("test_tbl1", name, age)
        elif command == "2":
            select_all("test_tbl1")
        elif command == "3":
            break
        else:
            print("Invalid command, please enter command again [1/2/3]")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

:::

### Step 3: Check Python and pip

Open a terminal in the command prompt or PowerShell and run the `python --version` and `pip --version` commands to check whether Python and pip are properly installed. 

**For example:**

```shell
[admin@xxx /home/admin]
$python --version
Python 3.6.8

[admin@xxx /home/admin]
$pip --version
pip 21.3.1 from /usr/local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/pip (python 3.6)
```

### Step 4: Install the necessary Python library

When you install the mysqlclient library, you must compile and link the MySQL C API to connect to OceanBase Database. Therefore, you must install the development files of MySQL Connector C or MySQL C API for later compilation. 

:::tab
tab Linux

In Linux, Python C extensions rely on the Python.h header file, which is usually contained in the python3-devel package. If the python3-devel package is not installed, an error will be returned when you compile the MySQL C API, indicating that the Python.h header file cannot be found. 

Open a terminal in the command prompt or PowerShell and run the following commands to install the necessary Python library. 

1. Check whether the `python3-devel` package is installed. 

    Run the following command to check whether the `python3-devel` package is installed:

    ```shell
    rpm -q python3-devel
    ```

    * If the `python3-devel` package is installed, the following information is displayed:

        ```shell
        python3-devel-3.x.x-x.el7.x86_64
        ```

        Here, 3.x.x indicates the version of Python3, and x86_64 indicates the CPU architecture of the system.

    * If the `python3-devel` package is not installed, the following information is displayed:

        ```shell
        package python3-devel is not installed
        ```

        In this case, you can run the following command to install the `python3-devel` package:

        ```shell
        sudo yum install python3-devel
        ```

        After the installation is complete, run the `rpm -q python3-devel` command again to check whether the installation is successful. 

2. Install the mysqlclient library. 

   1. Run the following command to go to the `python-mysqlclient` project directory: 

       ```shell
       cd python-mysqlclient
       ```

   2. Run the following command to install the Python library required by the project: 

       ```shell
       sudo pip install -r requirements.txt
       ```

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>You can also run the <code>sudo pip install mysqlclient</code> command to install the mysqlclient library.</p>
    </main>

tab Windows

In Windows, you must install the development files of MySQL Connector C, also known as MySQL Connector/C++, for later compilation. If MySQL Connector C is not installed, an error will be returned when you compile the MySQL C API, indicating that related library files cannot be found.

1. Check whether MySQL Connector C is installed.

   1. Open **Control Panel** and click **Programs and Features**. 

   2. Find MySQL Connector C or MySQL Connector/C++ in the list of programs. 

      * If MySQL Connector C is installed, it is displayed in the list. 

      * If MySQL Connector C is not installed, it is not displayed in the list.

2. If MySQL Connector C is not installed, perform the following steps to install it:

   1. Go to the download page on the [official website of MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/c/). 

   2. Download the appropriate installation package for your operating system. 

   3. Run the downloaded installation package and follow the instructions in the installation wizard to install it. 

   4. During the installation, select the `Custom` installation type and ensure that the `Development Components` feature is installed. 

   5. After the installation is complete, restart your computer.    

3. Install the mysqlclient library. 

    Open a terminal in the command prompt or PowerShell and run the following commands to install the necessary Python library.

   1. Run the following command to go to the `python-mysqlclient` project directory: 

       ```shell
       cd python-mysqlclient
       ```

   2. Run the following command to install the Python library required by the project: 

       ```shell
       pip install -r requirements.txt
       ```

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>You can also run the <code>pip install mysqlclient</code> command to install the mysqlclient library. </p>
    </main>

:::

### Step 5: Create a database in OceanBase Database

1. Connect to OceanBase Database. 

   ```shell
   obclient -h10.10.10.1 -P2881 -uroot@mysql001 -p****** -A
   ```

2. Execute the following SQL statement to create a database named `test_db`: 

   ```sql
   CREATE DATABASE test_db;
   ```

   For more information about the syntax for creating a database, see [CREATE DATABASE](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2100.create-database-of-mysql-mode.md).

### Step 6: Modify the database connection information in the config.py file

Modify the database connection information in the `config.py` file according to the information obtained in Step 1.

1. Go to the `python-mysqlclient` project directory. 

2. Modify the database connection information in the `config.py` file. 

   * In Windows, use the text editor to open the `config.py` file and modify the database connection information based on the actual situation. 
   * In Linux, use the `vi config.py` or `vim config.py` command to open the `config.py` file and modify the database connection information based on the actual situation. 

   **The following example shows the database connection information in the `config.py` file:**

   ```python
   OCEANBASE_CONFIG = {
       'host': '10.10.10.1',
       'port': 2881,
       'user': 'root@mysql001',
       'password': '******',
       'database': 'test_db',
       'charset': 'utf8mb4'
   }
   ```

### Step 7: Run the main.py file

Open a terminal in the command prompt or PowerShell and run the `python main.py` command to start the program. 

1. Go to the `python-mysqlclient` project directory. 

   **For example:**

   ```shell
   cd /home/admin/python-mysqlclient
   ```

2. Run the following command to start the `main.py` program: 

   ```shell
   python main.py
   ```

   The response is as follows:

   ```shell
   Table created successfully
   Instruction: 1.Insert Data; 2.Query Data; 3.Exit.
   Enter the command [1/2/3]>
   ```

### Step 8: Perform database operations on the CLI

* Insert data (succeeded) 

   1. On the CLI, enter `1` and press **Enter**. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Enter the command [1/2/3]> 1
      ```

   2. After the `Enter name:` prompt, enter a name and press **Enter**. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Enter name: A1
      ```

   3. After the `Enter age:` prompt, enter an age and press **Enter**. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Enter age: 18
      ```

   4. The `Record inserted successfully` message is displayed, indicating that the data is successfully inserted. Finally, an instruction is displayed, prompting you to enter `1`, `2`, or `3` and press **Enter** to perform the corresponding operation. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Record inserted successfully
      Instruction: 1.Insert Data; 2.Query Data; 3.Exit.
      Enter the command [1/2/3]>
      ```

* Insert data (failed) 

   1. On the CLI, enter `1` and press **Enter**. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Enter the command [1/2/3]> 1
      ```

   2. After the `Enter name:` prompt, enter a name and press **Enter**. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Enter name: A2
      ```

   3. After the `Enter age:` prompt, enter an age and press **Enter**. 

        <main id="notice" type='notice'>

        <h4>Notice</h4>

        <p>The data type of the age field is INT. </p>

        </main>

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Enter age: Eighteen
      ```

   4. The `(1366, 'Incorrect integer value')` message is displayed, indicating that the data failed to be inserted. Finally, an instruction is displayed, prompting you to enter `1`, `2`, or `3` and press **Enter** to perform the corresponding operation. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      (1366, 'Incorrect integer value')
      Instruction: 1.Insert Data; 2.Query Data; 3.Exit.
      Enter the command [1/2/3]>
      ```

* Query data 

   1. On the CLI, enter `2` and press **Enter**. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Enter the command [1/2/3]> 2
      ```

   2. The data of the table is displayed. Finally, an instruction is displayed, prompting you to enter `1`, `2`, or `3` and press **Enter** to perform the corresponding operation. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      (1, 'A1', 18)
      Instruction: 1.Insert Data; 2.Query Data; 3.Exit.
      Enter the command [1/2/3]>
      ```

* Enter an invalid command 

   1. On the CLI, enter a value other than `1/2/3` and press **Enter**. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Enter the command [1/2/3]> A
      ```

   2. The following error message is displayed: `Invalid command, please enter command again [1/2/3]`. Finally, an instruction is displayed, prompting you to enter `1`, `2`, or `3` and press **Enter** to perform the corresponding operation. 

      **For example:**

      ```shell
      Invalid command, please enter command again [1/2/3]
      Instruction: 1.Insert Data; 2.Query Data; 3.Exit.
      Enter the command [1/2/3]>
      ```

* Exit the program 

   On the CLI, enter `3` and press **Enter**. 

   **For example:**

   ```shell
   Enter the command [1/2/3]> 3
   ```

## References

* For more information about how to connect to OceanBase Database, see [Overview of connection methods](../../100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/100.connection-methods-overview-of-mysql-mode.md). 

* For more information about how to create a database, see [CREATE DATABASE](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2100.create-database-of-mysql-mode.md).
