| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Overview

NULL indicates an invalid, unspecified, unknown, or unpredictable value in a database table. NULLs are allowed in columns whose data types are not subject to the NOT NULL or PRIMARY KEY constraints. Arithmetic expressions that contain a NULL always return `NULL`.

OceanBase Database supports the following types of NULLs: NULLs in SQL functions, NULLs in comparison conditions, and NULLs in conditional expressions.

## NULLs in SQL functions

A NULL in an SQL function means that the argument of the SQL function is NULL. Given a NULL argument, most scalar functions return `NULL`, while aggregate functions (except for `COUNT()` and `GROUPING()`) ignore the NULL.

| NULL | Description |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------|
| NULLs in scalar functions | When NULLs appear, you can determine the NULLs by using the return value of the `NVL()` function.  |
| NULLs in aggregate functions | Aggregate functions such as `AVG()`, `MAX()`, and `SUM()` ignore `NULL` records.  |

## NULLs in comparison conditions

`NULLs` in comparison conditions are compared with any other conditions. To test for NULLs, you can only use the `IS NULL` and `IS NOT NULL` operators. Because `NULL` means a lack of data, a `NULL` value cannot be equal to, unequal to, greater than, or less than any other value. It cannot be compared with any values, including itself.

## NULLs in conditional expressions

NULLs may also appear in conditional expressions such as `= NULL`, `!= NULL`, `NULL =`, and `NULL ! = `. In this case, `NULLs` are used for logic judgment and no row is returned as the judgment result. Therefore, the result is `UNKNOWN`.
