XA_START
=============================

The `XA_START` function associates the current session with the transaction branch specified in the `xid` parameter.


  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Syntax
-----------

```sql
DBMS_XA.XA_START (
   xid   IN  DBMS_XA_XID,    
   flag  IN  PLS_INTEGER)  
RETURN PLS_INTEGER;
```



Parameters
-------------



| **Parameter** | **Description** |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| xid | For more information, see [DBMS_XA_XID object type](../18500.dbms-xa-oracle/300.the-type-of-the-dbms-xa-xid-object-oracle.md).  |
| flag | For more information, see [DBMS_XA constants](../18500.dbms-xa-oracle/200.dbms-xa-constant-oracle.md).  |



Return values
------------

For more information, see [Possible constant return values for DBMS_XA](../18500.dbms-xa-oracle/200.dbms-xa-constant-oracle.md).

Considerations
-------------------------

* If you specify `TMJOIN` or `TMRESUME` in the flag parameter, the operation starts from an existing transaction branch specified by the `xid` parameter. Use the `TMJOIN` flag when the transaction is detached with the `TMSUCCESS` flag. Use the `TMRESUME` flag when the transaction branch is detached with the `TMSUSPEND` flag. Either flag can be used to call `XA_START` to join an existing transaction branch.



* If you specify `TMNOFLAGS` but do not specify either `TMJOIN` or `TMRESUME` in the flag parameter, a new transaction branch will be started. If the transaction branch specified by `xid` already exists, XA_START returns the `XAER_DUPID` error code.



* The possible return values when in error are `XAER_RMERR`, `XAER_RMFAIL`, `XAER_DUPID`, `XAER_OUTSIDE`, `XAER_NOTA`, `XAER_INVAL`, and `XAER_PROTO`.



* If `XA_START` succeeds, `XA_OK` is returned. An application must check the return value and handle error cases. The PL application can only proceed with other normal operations when `XA_OK` is returned. Transaction stacking is not supported. If an active transaction associated with the current session exists, the function may not be called to start or join another transaction. If `XA_START` is called with an active global transaction branch associated with the session, `XAER_PROTO` is returned. If `XA_START` is called with a local transaction associated with the current session, `XAER_OUTSIDE` is returned.





