| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# XA_END

The `XA_END` function disassociates the current session from the transaction branch specified in `xid`.

The transaction manager calls `XA_END` when a control thread completes a transaction branch or needs to suspend the work on a transaction branch. This occurs when the application completes a part or all of its work. For example, `XA_END` is called before blocking some event to enable other control threads to work on the branch. After `XA_END` returns with success, the calling control thread is no longer associated with the branch, but the branch still exists.


  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_XA.XA_END (
   xid   IN  DBMS_XA_XID,
   flag  IN  PLS_INTEGER)
RETURN PLS_INTEGER;
```



## Parameters



| **Parameter** | **Description** |
|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| xid | For more information, see [DBMS_XA_XID object type](../18500.dbms-xa-oracle/300.the-type-of-the-dbms-xa-xid-object-oracle.md).  |
| flag | For more information, see [DBMS_XA constants for the flag field of XA_START & XA_END](../18500.dbms-xa-oracle/200.dbms-xa-constant-oracle.md).  |



## Return values

For more information, see [Possible constant return values for DBMS_XA](../18500.dbms-xa-oracle/200.dbms-xa-constant-oracle.md).

The possible error codes are `XAER_RMERR`, `XAER_RMFAILED`, `XAER_NOTA`, `XAER_INVAL`, `XAER_PROTO`, and `XA_RB*`.

## Considerations

* You can specify `TMSUCCESS` or `TMSUSPEND` in the `flag` parameter, and the transaction branch is disassociated from the current session in the detached state if the return value is `XA_OK`. `TMFAIL` is not supported. You can call `XA_END` with `TMSUCCESS` or `TMSUSPEND` to disassociate the transaction branch specified by `xid` from the current session.

* If `XA_END` succeeds, `XA_OK` is returned. An application must check the return value and handle error cases. The application can only proceed with other normal operations when `XA_OK` is returned.

* If you execute a `ROLLBACK` statement before `XA_END` is called, changes made by the current transaction will be rolled back. However, the context of the transaction is till associated with the current session until you call `XA_END`.

* If you execute a `COMMIT` statement before `XA_END` is called, the following error will be returned: `ORA-02089: COMMIT is not allowed in a subordinate session`.

* If you execute a `COMMIT` or `ROLLBACK` statement after `XA_END` is called, the execution does not have any effect on the transaction specified by `xid` because it is no longer associated with the current session. In this case, you can commit the transaction ID or call the `XA_ROLLBACK` function to commit or rollback the transaction specified by `xid`.





