# Create a standby tenant

You can create a standby tenant only by using the physical restore feature. To create a standby tenant, perform the following two steps: restore the standby tenant by using data backups and archive logs, and then change the recovery endpoint of the standby tenant.

## Prerequisites

A standby tenant can be restored only by using the data backups and archive logs of the primary tenant and another standby tenant. Therefore, you must make sure that the following requirements are met before you create a standby tenant:

* To restore a standby tenant by using the data backups and archive logs of the primary tenant, make sure that:

   1. Archivelog is enabled for the primary tenant, and log archiving remains in the `DOING` state.

      For more information about how to enable archivelog, see [Enable archivelog](../../6.backup-and-recovery/3.log-archive/3.open-the-log-archive-mode.md). For more information about how to view the log archiving status, see [View the archiving progress](../../6.backup-and-recovery/3.log-archive/6.view-log-archive-progress.md).

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>To ensure that all logs during data backup are archived, you must enable archivelog for the primary tenant before you start data backup. </p>
      </main>

   2. The data backup feature is enabled for the primary tenant and a full backup operation has been completed for the primary tenant.

      For more information about how to initiate full backup of a tenant, see [Initiate a data backup job](../../6.backup-and-recovery/4.data-backup/2.initiate-full-data-backup.md).

* To restore a standby tenant by using the data backups and archive logs of another standby tenant, make sure that:

   1. Archivelog is enabled for the source standby tenant, and log archiving remains in the `DOING` state.

      For more information about how to enable archivelog, see [Enable archivelog](../../6.backup-and-recovery/3.log-archive/3.open-the-log-archive-mode.md). For more information about how to view the log archiving status, see [View the archiving progress](../../6.backup-and-recovery/3.log-archive/6.view-log-archive-progress.md).

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>To ensure that all logs during data backup are archived, you must enable archivelog for the source standby tenant before you start data backup. </p>
      </main>

   2. The data backup feature is enabled for the source standby tenant and a full backup operation has been completed for the source standby tenant.

      For more information about how to initiate full backup of a tenant, see [Initiate a data backup job](../../6.backup-and-recovery/4.data-backup/2.initiate-full-data-backup.md).

## Restore a standby tenant

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster where you want to create a standby tenant.

2. Execute the `RESTORE` statement to restore the standby tenant by using the data backups and archive logs of the sys tenant.

   Syntax:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE standby_tenant_name FROM uri UNTIL TIME =timestamp WITH restore_option [DESCRIPTION description];
   ```

   The parameters are as follows:

   * `standby_tenant_name`: the name of the standby tenant to be restored.

   * `uri`: the path of data backups and the path of archive logs of the primary tenant or an existing standby tenant.

   * `UNTIL TIME =timestamp`: the recovery endpoint, which is the timestamp to which the standby tenant is restored. Join the parameter name and the value of `timestamp` with an equal sign ( `=`). The value of `timestamp` must be in the `YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS.FF` format, accurate to nanoseconds.
     For more information about to select `timestamp`, see [Parameters related to physical restore](../../6.backup-and-recovery/6.restore-data/8.parameters-of-the-restore.md).

   * In `restore_option`, you can specify `pool_list`, `locality`, `primary_zone`, and `kms_encrypt`. `pool_list` is required and the others are optional.

   Restore the `restore_oracle_tenant` tenant to the specified timestamp of `2022-11-11 15:04:23.825558` by using the logs archived in `file:///data/1/nfs/backup//ob_backup_oracle_tenant/archive` and the data backups stored in `file:///data/1/nfs/backup//ob_backup_oracle_tenant/data`. Set the resource pool to `small_pool_2` and `primary_zone` to `z1`.

   Sample statement:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM RESTORE oracle_standby
     FROM 'file:///data/1/nfs/backup//ob_backup_oracle_tenant/archive,file:///data/1/nfs/backup//ob_backup_oracle_tenant/data' 
     UNTIL TIME='2022-11-11 15:04:23.825558' with 'pool_list=small_pool_2&primary_zone=z1';
   ```

   For more information about the `RESTORE` statement, see [Parameters related to physical restore](../../6.backup-and-recovery/6.restore-data/8.parameters-of-the-restore.md).

   You can query the `oceanbase.CDB_OB_RESTORE_PROGRESS` view for the restore progress. For more information, see [Query the restore progress](../../6.backup-and-recovery/6.restore-data/4.view-the-restore-progress.md).

## Change the recovery endpoint of the new standby tenant

The new standby tenant does not continuously synchronize the archive logs of the primary or source standby tenant. You must set the recovery endpoint of the new standby tenant by using the `RECOVER` statement.

1. Log on to the database as the administrator of the new standby tenant or the `sys` tenant of the cluster where the new standby tenant resides.

2. Execute the `RECOVER` statement to change the recovery endpoint of the standby tenant based on your actual business.

   * Restore to a specified timestamp

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RECOVER STANDBY [TENANT = tenant_name] UNTIL TIME='timestamp';
      ```

      You need to specify the name of the standby tenant by adding the `TENANT = tenant_name` parameter in the statement only if you execute the statement in the `sys` tenant. The `timestamp` parameter specifies the timestamp, in nanoseconds, to which the standby tenant is restored.

      After you execute this statement, the standby tenant is restored to the specified timestamp.

   * Restore to a specified SCN

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RECOVER STANDBY [TENANT = tenant_name] UNTIL SCN=scn;
      ```

      You need to specify the name of the standby tenant by adding the `TENANT = tenant_name` parameter in the statement only if you execute the statement in the `sys` tenant. The `scn` parameter specifies the system change number (SCN), which is a logical internal timestamp.

      After you execute this statement, the standby tenant is restored to the specified timestamp.

   * Restore to an infinite endpoint

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM RECOVER STANDBY [TENANT = tenant_name] UNTIL UNLIMITED;
      ```

      You need to specify the name of the standby tenant by adding the `TENANT = tenant_name` parameter in the statement only if you execute the statement in the `sys` tenant. `UNLIMITED` indicates that the recovery endpoint is infinite.

      After you execute this statement, the standby tenant enters the continuous synchronization mode.

## More information

[Change the restore source of a standby tenant](3.modify-the-restore-source-of-the-standby-tenant.md)
