|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

This chapter provides an overview of the core check items of routine inspections for OceanBase clusters. Routine inspections cover the performance, availability, resource usage, and data backup of an OceanBase cluster. To identify and remove risks during the operation of OceanBase clusters as soon as possible, we recommend that you pay close attention to the routine inspection results.

This chapter will be divided into sections to cover the following core check items related to routine inspections:

* [Cluster parameters](200.check-cluster-parameters.md)

   OceanBase Database allows you to check the parameters of clusters. During troubleshooting, you can check cluster parameters and modify the log level to obtain more parameter logs to facilitate diagnostics. After the problem is identified and resolved, we recommend that you restore the parameters to the original settings.

* [Host status](300.check-host-status.md)

   OceanBase Database allows you to check the status of hosts, such as the disk usage, host time, and host load.

* [Tenant resource usage](400.check-the-resource-usage-status-of-a-tenant.md)

   OceanBase Database allows you to check the resource usage of tenants, such as CPU utilization, memory usage, number of replicas, and disk usage.

* [Cluster resource usage](500.check-cluster-resource-usage.md)

   OceanBase Database allows you to check the resource usage of clusters, such as CPU utilization, memory usage, number of replicas, and disk usage.

* [OBServer node status](600.check-observer-status.md)

   OceanBase Database allows you to check the status of OBServer nodes. For example, you can check the number of replicas and whether the observer process is working properly.

* [NTP offset](700.check-ntp-offset.md)

   OceanBase Database allows you to check the NTP offset of hosts. If the NTP offset of a host in an OceanBase cluster is excessively large, an error may occur during leader election.

* [Deadlock detection](800.check-lock.md)

   OceanBase Database supports automatic distributed detection of deadlocks. OceanBase Database automatically detects and clears deadlocks when automatic distributed detection of deadlocks is enabled.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The items listed here are only the ones that require particular attention.</p>
  </main>
