|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Deadlock detection

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>At present, OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Community Edition does not support deadlock detection. </p>
  </main>

OceanBase Database supports automatic distributed detection of deadlocks. OceanBase Database can automatically detect and solve deadlocks when the automatic distributed deadlock detection feature is enabled. You must determine whether to commit or roll back the transaction based on the SQL exception information. 

Compared with the deadlock handling solution based on transaction timeout, automatic distributed deadlock detection has the following advantages:

OceanBase Database can detect and solve deadlocks promptly to reduce the impact of service deadlocks on system performance. 

You can view the deadlocks that occurred in the last seven days and the relevant SQL statements executed to optimize the business logic and prevent deadlocks. 

You can obtain deadlock information from OCP. For more information, see [View deadlock analysis](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-ocp-en-10000000000838589), [Enable automatic detection of deadlocks](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-ocp-en-10000000000838974), and [Disable automatic detection of deadlocks](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-ocp-en-10000000000838978). 

You can also query the `DBA_OB_DEADLOCK_EVENT_HISTORY` or `CDB_OB_DEADLOCK_EVENT_HISTORY` view to obtain all deadlock events, transactions involved in the events, and the transaction that is killed in a deadlock event. Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> select * from oceanbase.DBA_OB_DEADLOCK_EVENT_HISTORY;

obclient> select * from oceanbase.CDB_OB_DEADLOCK_EVENT_HISTORY;
```
