|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Local transactions

Local transaction is a concept relative to cross-server distributed transaction. All the log stream leaders of the tables on which a local transaction operates are on the same server as the transaction session.

Local transactions can be divided into local single-log stream transactions and local multi-log stream transactions based on the number of tables on which the transaction operates.

## Single-log stream transactions

A local single-log stream transaction must meet the following two conditions:

* Operations in the transaction involve only one log stream.

* The log stream leader is on the same server as the transaction session.

Local single-log stream transaction is the simplest model in which the transaction commit is highly optimized.

## Standalone multi-log stream transactions

A local multi-log stream transaction, which is also called a standalone multi-log stream transaction, must meet the following two conditions:

* The log stream leaders of the tables on which the transaction operates are on the same server.

* The log stream leader is on the same server as the transaction session.

Due to the log streams in OceanBase Database, standalone multi-log stream transactions are also essentially distributed transactions. To improve the performance of a single server, OceanBase Database optimizes the transactions that have the same participant replica distribution. Compared with the traditional two-phase commit, the optimization greatly improves the commit performance of standalone transactions.
