|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Query log stream upgrade/downgrade information

After you enable the arbitration service for a tenant, you can query views for information about the upgrade or downgrade of log streams in the tenant.

## Query log stream upgrade/downgrade events

You can query the `DBA_OB_SERVER_EVENT_HISTORY` view in the `sys` tenant for the upgrade and downgrade events of all log streams.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statements to query whether log stream upgrade or downgrade events have occurred.

   * Query log stream downgrade events

      ```sql
      SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_SERVER_EVENT_HISTORY WHERE event LIKE "%DEGRADE%";
      ```

      If the query result is empty, no log stream is downgraded. Otherwise, the query result shows the information about log stream replicas that have downgraded and the reasons for the degradation.

      Reasons for the degradation are as follows:

     * `SERVER_STOPPED_OR_ZONE_STOPPED`: Indicates that an OBServer node has crashed or lost network connection. Or, the observer process was killed, or exited unexpectedly.
     * `LOG_DISK_HANG_OR_FULL`: Indicates that the log disk is stuck in writing (physical failure) or the tenant log disk space is full.
     * `SERVER_STOPPED_OR_ZONE_STOPPED`: Indicates that the `STOP ZONE` or `STOP SERVER` command was executed.
     * `LOG_SYNC_DISABLED`: Indicates that the replica log synchronization is lagging behind.
     * `LOG_VOTE_DISABLED`: Indicates that a rebuild operation was performed on the replica.


   * Query log stream upgrade events

      ```sql
      SELECT * FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_SERVER_EVENT_HISTORY WHERE event LIKE "%UPGRADE%";
      ```

      If the query result is empty, no log stream is upgraded. Otherwise, the query result shows the information about log stream replicas that have upgraded.

## Query the log stream upgrade/downgrade result

After a log stream upgrade or downgrade event occurs, you can query the `GV$OB_LOG_STAT` view in the `sys` tenant or the `V$OB_LOG_STAT` view in a user tenant for the upgrade or downgrade result of the log stream.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant or a user tenant as the administrator.

2. Execute the following statement to query the log stream upgrade or downgrade result.

   * `sys` tenant

      ```sql
      SELECT * FROM oceanbase.GV$OB_LOG_STAT WHERE tenant_id= xxxx;
      ```

   * User tenant

      :::tab
      tab MySQL mode

      The syntax is as follows:

      ```sql
      SELECT * FROM oceanbase.GV$OB_LOG_STAT WHERE tenant_id= xxxx;
      ```

      tab Oracle mode

      The syntax is as follows:

      ```sql
      SELECT * FROM SYS.GV$OB_LOG_STAT WHERE tenant_id= xxxx;
      ```

      :::

   In the query result, view the `DEGRADED_LIST` column corresponding to the log stream replica whose role is `LEADER`. If a log stream downgrade event occurs, the log stream replica downgraded due to an exception is displayed in this column. If a log stream upgrade event occurs, the upgraded replica is removed from this column.

## References

For more information about log stream upgrade and downgrade, see the following topics:

* [Arbitration service overview](100.arbitration-service-overview.md)

* [Modify the log stream downgrade control time](400.modify-the-degradation-timeout.md)