# Drop a tenant

You can drop a tenant by using an SQL statement.

## Considerations

When you drop a tenant, the databases and tables in this tenant are also dropped. Proceed with caution.

## Limitations

You can drop a user tenant only from the `sys` tenant.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant as the `root` user.

2. Execute any of the following statements to drop a tenant.

   Statements for dropping a tenant:

   ```sql
   obclient> DROP TENANT tenant_name [FORCE]
   ```

   or

   ```sql
   obclient> DROP TENANT tenant_name PURGE;
   ```

   Parameters:

   * `DROP TENANT`:

      * Drops the specified tenant to the recycle bin if the recycle bin feature is enabled for the sys tenant. The sys tenant can purge or restore tenants in the recycle bin. For more information, see [Recycle bin](../../../../600.manage/400.high-availability/500.recyclebin-management/100.recyclebin-overview.md).

      * Drops the specified tenant after a delay if the recycle bin feature is disabled by the sys tenant. A garbage collection (GC) operation is performed by a background thread. You can still query internal tables for information of the tenant. The delay is determined by the `schema_history_expire_time` parameter. The default delay is 7 days, which indicates that the tenant as well as databases and tables under the tenant will be deleted 7 days after the `DROP TENANT` statement is executed.

         For more information about the `schema_history_expire_time` parameter, see [schema_history_expire_time](../../../500.system-reference/100.system-configuration-items/300.cluster-level-configuration-items/18000.schema_history_expire_time.md).

   * The `DROP TENANT PURGE` statement only drops tenants after a delay. It does not drop tenants to the recycle bin no matter whether the recycle bin feature is enabled by the sys tenant.

   * The `FORCE` parameter specifies that a tenant is immediately dropped no matter whether the recycle bin feature is enabled by the sys tenant.

   Examples:

   * When the recycle bin feature is enabled by the sys tenant, drop tenant `t1` and move the tenant to the recycle bin. When the recycle bin feature is disabled by the sys tenant, drop tenant `t1` after a delay.

      ```sql
      obclient> DROP TENANT t1;
      ```

   * Drop tenant `t1` after a delay, without moving the tenant to the recycle bin.

      ```sql
      obclient> DROP TENANT t1 PURGE;
      ```

   * Immediately drop tenant `t1`.

      ```sql
      obclient> DROP TENANT t1 FORCE;
      ```

   After a tenant is dropped, the databases and tables of the tenant are also deleted. However, the resources that are allocated to the tenant are not deleted and can be allocated to other tenants.
