|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Allocate a resource pool to a tenant

After successfully creating a resource pool, you can allocate it to a tenant either during tenant creation or when modifying a tenant's resource pool list.

## Scenario 1: Allocate a resource pool during tenant creation

When creating a tenant, you can allocate an unused resource pool to the tenant using the following SQL statement:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TENANT IF NOT EXISTS test_tenant charset='utf8mb4', primary_zone='zone1;zone2,zone3', resource_pool_list=('pool1');
```

For instructions on creating a tenant, see [Create a tenant](../200.manage-create-tenant.md).

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>
  <p>A resource pool can be bound to only one tenant, but a tenant can have multiple resource pools.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
  <p>The total amount of resources allocated to a tenant in a zone is determined by the resource unit configuration multiplied by the number of resource units.
</p></main>

## Scenario 2: Allocate a resource pool when modifying a tenant's resource pool list

When modifying a tenant's resource pool list, you can allocate an unused resource pool to the tenant using the following SQL statement:

```sql
ALTER TENANT tenant_name RESOURCE_POOL_LIST [=](pool_name [, pool_name...]) ;
```

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>
  <p>This statement can only be executed by the administrator of the <code>sys</code> tenant.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
  <p>For <code>RESOURCE_POOL_LIST</code>, only one resource pool can be added or deleted at the same time.
</p>  </li>
  <li>
  <p>When adding a resource pool for a tenant, ensure that the zones used by the new resource pool differ from those used by the existing resource pools.</p>
</main>

Modifying a tenant's resource pool list to add resource pools for the tenant is typically used in scenarios where the number of replicas for the tenant needs to be increased.

### Example

Suppose there are three zones (`z1`, `z2`, `z3`) in a cluster, all belonging to the same region, with one OBServer node in each zone. In this cluster, there is a user tenant named `tenant1` with the current replica distribution `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3', resource_pool_list=('pool1');`. According to the business requirements, the number of replicas for `tenant1` needs to be increased from 3 to 5, that is, the locality of the tenant needs to be changed from `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3` to `F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5`.

To accomplish this, perform the following steps:

1. Add two new zones, `z4` and `z5`, to the cluster.

   For instructions on adding zones to a cluster, see [Add a zone](../../../100.cluster-management/300.common-cluster-operations/800.add-a-zone.md).

2. Add one OBServer node to each of the new zones.

   For instructions on adding an OBServer node to a zone, see [Add a node](../../../100.cluster-management/300.common-cluster-operations/400.add-a-node.md).

3. Log in to the `sys` tenant using the `root` user and add resources to `tenant1` in zones `z4` and `z5`.

   1. Before you add resources, make sure that resource units and resource pools are available.

      ```sql
      obclient>CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit2 MAX_CPU 1, MIN_CPU 1, MEMORY_SIZE '5G', MAX_IOPS 1024, MIN_IOPS 1024, IOPS_WEIGHT 0,LOG_DISK_SIZE '2G';

      obclient>CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 unit = 'unit2', unit_num = 1, zone_list=('z4','z5');
      ```

   2. Add resources to `z4` and `z5`.

      ```sql
      obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 RESOURCE_POOL_LIST =('pool1', 'pool2') ;
      ```

4. Increase the replicas by modifying the tenant's locality.

   According to the locality modification rules, you can add only one zone at the same time. For more information about the locality modification rules, see [Modify locality](../../../300.replica-management/200.replica-distribution/200.locality-common-operations/200.modify-locality.md).

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4';

   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5';
   ```
