|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Remove resource pools from a tenant

Removing resource pools from a tenant usually happens when you want to reduce the number of replicas for a tenant. You can use the `ALTER TENANT` statement to remove resource pools from a tenant.

The corresponding SQL syntax is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TENANT tenant_name RESOURCE_POOL_LIST [=](pool_name [, pool_name...]) ;
```

Note the following:

* This statement can only be executed by the administrator of the `sys` tenant.

* For `RESOURCE_POOL_LIST`, only one resource pool can be deleted at a time.

## Example

Assuming that a cluster has a total of 5 zones, `z1`, `z2`, `z3`, `z4`, and `z5`, all belonging to the same region, with one OBServer in each zone. There is a regular tenant named `tenant1` with the following locality: `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4,F@z5', resource_pool_list=('pool1','pool2')`. The resource distribution of the resource pools is as follows: `CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT 'uc1', UNIT_NUM 1, ZONE_LIST ('z1', 'z2', 'z3')` and `CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool2 UNIT 'uc2', UNIT_NUM 1, ZONE_LIST ('z4', 'z5')`.

According to business requirements, it is necessary to reduce the number of replicas from 5 to 3 and the number of resource pools from 2 to 1 for `tenant1`. That is, the locality of the tenant needs to be changed to `locality='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,', resource_pool_list=('pool1')`.

## Procedure

1. Log in to the `sys` tenant of the cluster using the `root` user.

2. Modify the locality of `tenant1` to delete replicas.

   According to the locality modification rules, only one zone's locality can be deleted at a time. For more information about the locality modification rules, see [Modify locality](../../../300.replica-management/200.replica-distribution/200.locality-common-operations/200.modify-locality.md).

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3,F@z4';

   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 LOCALITY='F@z1,F@z2,F@z3';
   ```

3. Delete the `pool2` resource pool from `z4` and `z5`.

   ```sql
   obclient>ALTER TENANT tenant1 RESOURCE_POOL_LIST =('pool1') ;
   ```

## More information

For other scenarios where you need to adjust the available resources for a tenant, you can modify the configuration and number of resource units in the resource pools.
* For instructions on modifying resource unit configurations, see [Modify a unit config](../1600.resource-specification-management/200.modify-the-configuration-of-a-resource-unit.md).
* For instructions on modifying the number of resource units in a resource pool, see [Modify attributes of a resource pool](../900.modify-resource-pool-properties.md).
