# Merge and split resource pools

You can manage resource pools by merging or splitting them.

## Merge resource pools

For easier management, you can merge multiple resource pools with the same resource configuration within a tenant into a single resource pool.

### Limitations

There are the following limitations for merging resource pools:

* The `unit_num` settings of the resource pools to be merged must be the same.

* The resource configurations of the resource pools to be merged must be the same.

### Procedure

1. Log in to the `sys` tenant of the cluster using the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to merge the resource pools:

   ```sql
   ALTER RESOURCE POOL MERGE  ('pool_name'[, 'pool_name' ...]) INTO ('merge_pool_name')
   ```

   where `pool_name` specifies the names of the resource pools to be merged, and `merge_pool_name` specifies the name of the merged resource pool.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>When resource pools are being merged, it does not affect the usage of the resource pools by tenants. It is only seen as multiple resource pools merged into one resource pool at the management level of the Root Service for easier maintenance. </p>
   </main>

   Here is an example:

   ```shell
   obclient>ALTER RESOURCE POOL MERGE ('pool0','pool1','pool2') INTO ('pool3');
   ```

## Split resource pools

In daily usage, to fully utilize resources, you can split a multi-zone resource pool of a tenant into multiple single-zone resource pools and then configure each zone with its own resource configuration.

### Limitations

Only the `sys` tenant is allowed to split resource pools.

### Example

In typical daily usage scenarios, resource pools are usually created as follows:

```sql
obclient>CREATE RESOURCE POOL pool1 UNIT='uc0', UNIT_NUM=1, ZONE_LIST=('z1','z2','z3');
```
The current scope of resource pool `pool1` is `z1`, `z2`, and `z3`, and the resource configuration is `uc0` for all zones. However, because the physical servers specifications may differ significantly among the zones `z1`, `z2`, `z3`, if the same resource configuration `uc0` is used for all three zones, it is not possible to fully utilize the resources of each physical server in each zone. Splitting resource pools allows you to split a multi-zone resource pool into multiple single-zone resource pools and configure each single-zone resource pool with its own resource configuration.

The SQL syntax for splitting resource pools is as follows:

```sql
ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool_name SPLIT INTO ('pool_name' [, 'pool_name' ...]) ON ('zone' [, 'zone' ...])
```

### Procedure

1. Log in to the `sys` tenant of the cluster using the `root` user.

2. Split the resource pool `pool1` into `pool10`, `pool11`, and `pool12`, and specify new resource unit configurations for the new resource pools.

   ```shell
   obclient>ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool1 SPLIT INTO ('pool10','pool11','pool12') ON ('z1','z2','z3');

   ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool10 UNIT='uc1';

   ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool11 UNIT='uc2';

   ALTER RESOURCE POOL pool12 UNIT='uc3';
   ```

   After the split, the default resource configurations of the split resource pools remain the same as the original resource specification. You can adjust the resource configurations of the new resource pools based on the resource usage in each zone.
