|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Drop a resource pool

This topic describes how to drop a resource pool.

## Prerequisites

Before dropping a resource pool, make sure that the resource pool is not being used by any tenants. If the resource pool is being used by a tenant, you need to release the resource pool before dropping it.

* If a tenant has multiple resource pools, you can drop a resource pool from the tenant by modifying the tenant's resource pool configuration. For detailed instructions, see [Modify attributes of a tenant](../1000.modify-tenant-properties.md).

* If a tenant has only one resource pool, you cannot directly drop it.

   * To drop it, first create a new resource pool and allocate it to the tenant, then release the target resource pool by modifying the resource pool configuration. For instructions on creating a resource pool, see the "Create a resource pool" section in the [Create a tenant](../200.manage-create-tenant.md) topic.
   * If the tenant is no longer in use, you can drop the tenant first, and then drop the resource pool. For instructions on dropping a tenant, see [Drop a tenant](../1200.delete-tenant.md).

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

   ```shell
   obclient -h172.30.xx.xx -P2883 -uroot@sys#cluster -p**** -A
   ```

2. Access the database named `oceanbase`.

   ```shell
   obclient [(none)]> USE oceanbase;
   ```

3. Query the `DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS` view for the configuration information about resource pools. If the value of `TENANT_ID` of a resource pool is `NULL`, the resource pool is not allocated to any tenant and can be dropped.

   To query the configuration information about the resource pool named `mq_pool_02`, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SELECT TENANT_ID,NAME FROM DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS WHERE NAME = 'mq_pool_02';
   +-----------+------------+
   | tenant_id | name       |
   +-----------+------------+
   |      NULL | mq_pool_02 |
   +-----------+------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

   For more information about the `DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS` view, see [DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/300.system-view-of-sys-tenant/200.dictionary-view-of-sys-tenant/21000.o-dba_ob_resource_pools-of-sys-tenant.md).

4. Execute the `DROP RESOURCE POOL` statement to drop a resource pool.

   To drop the resource pool named `mq_pool_02`, execute the following statement:

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> DROP RESOURCE POOL mq_pool_02;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected
   ```

   For more information about the `DROP RESOURCE POOL` statement, see [DROP RESOURCE POOL](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/100.system-tenants/900.drop-resource-pool.md).

5. Query the `DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS` view to verify whether the resource pool is successfully dropped.

   ```shell
   obclient [oceanbase]> SELECT * FROM DBA_OB_RESOURCE_POOLS WHERE NAME = 'mq_pool_02';
   Empty set
   ```

## References

* [Create a tenant](../200.manage-create-tenant.md)

* [Modify attributes of a tenant](../1000.modify-tenant-properties.md)