| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Hints related to join orders

Hints related to join orders are `ORDERED` and `LEADING`.

## ORDERED hint

The `ORDERED` hint instructs the database to join tables in the order in which they appear in the `FROM` clause.
  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>We recommend that you use the <code>LEADING</code> hint, which is more versatile than the <code>ORDERED</code> hint. </p>
  </main>

The syntax of the `ORDERED` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ ORDERED */
```

If you omit the `ORDERED` hint in an SQL statement that requires a join, the optimizer chooses the table join order. If the number of rows to select from each table is unknown to the optimizer, you can use the `ORDERED` hint to specify the join order. This allows you to select left-side and right-side tables better than the optimizer. If the statement is rewritten after you specify the `ORDERED` hint, the join order specified in the `FROM` clause in the new statement is used.

## LEADING hint

The `LEADING` hint instructs the optimizer to use the specified table as the driving table in the execution plan to specify the join order for tables. We recommend that you use the `LEADING` hint, which is more versatile than the `ORDERED` hint.

The syntax of the `LEADING` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ LEADING ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]...  ) */
```

The `LEADING` hint strictly checks the join order against the order specified by the user. The rules are as follows:

* If `table_name` specified by the hint does not exist, the `LEADING` hint becomes invalid.

* If a duplicate table exists in the hint, the `LEADING` hint becomes invalid.

* If the corresponding table cannot be found when the optimizer joins tables, the join order specified for the table and its subsequent tables become invalid, but the order before the table is still valid.

* If the specified tables cannot be joined first in the specified order due to dependencies in the join graph, the `LEADING` hint becomes invalid.

* If you specify two or more conflicting `LEADING` hints, the `LEADING` hints become invalid.

* If you specify the `ORDERED` hint, it overwrites all `LEADING` hints.

Here is an example of the `LEADING` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ LEADING(e j) */ *
    FROM employees e, departments d, job_history j
    WHERE e.department_id = d.department_id
      AND e.hire_date = j.start_date;
```
