| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Hints related to joins

Hints related to joins are `USE_MERGE`, `NO_USE_MERGE`, `USE_HASH`, `NO_USE_HASH`, `USE_NL`, `NO_USE_NL`, `USE_BNL`, and `NO_USE_BNL`.

## USE_MERGE hint

The `USE_MERGE` hint instructs the optimizer to use a `sort-merge` join to join each specified table with another row source and use the specified table as the right-side table.

The syntax of the `USE_MERGE` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ USE_MERGE ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]... ) */
```

We recommend that you use the `USE_NL` and `USE_MERG` hints with the `LEADING` or `ORDERED` hint. If the referenced tables are right-side tables, the optimizer uses these hints. If the referenced tables are left-side tables, the optimizer ignores these hints. The `USE_MERGE` hint specifies to use the `MERGE-JOIN` algorithm when the specified table is a right-side table. In OceanBase Database, to use the `MERGE-JOIN` algorithm, the tables to be joined must have equivalent join conditions. When you join two tables that do not have equivalent conditions, the `USE_MERGE` hint is invalid.

Here is an example of the `USE_MERGE` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_MERGE(employees departments) */ *
FROM employees, departments
WHERE employees.department_id = departments.department_id;
```

## NO_USE_MERGE hint

The `NO_USE_MERGE` hint instructs the optimizer to exclude joins used by the `USE_MERGE` hint when the optimizer uses the specified table as a right-side table and joins the table with another row source.

The syntax of the `NO_USE_MERGE` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_USE_MERGE ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]... ) */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_USE_MERGE` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ NO_USE_MERGE(e d) */ *
FROM employees e, departments d
WHERE e.department_id = d.department_id;
```

## USE_HASH hint

The `USE_HASH` hint instructs the optimizer to use the HASH-JOIN algorithm to join each specified table with another row source and use the specified table as the right-side table.

The syntax of the `USE_HASH` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ USE_HASH ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]... ) */
```

Here is an example of the `USE_HASH` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_HASH(l h) */ *
  FROM orders h, order_items l
  WHERE l.order_id = h.order_id
    AND l.order_id > 2400;
```

## NO_USE_HASH hint

The `NO_USE_HASH` hint instructs the optimizer to exclude the joins used by the `USE_HASH` hint when the optimizer uses the specified table as a right-side table and joins the table with another row source.

The syntax of the `NO_USE_HASH` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_USE_HASH ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]... ) */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_USE_HASH` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ NO_USE_HASH(e d) */ *
FROM employees e, departments d
WHERE e.department_id = d.department_id;
```

## USE_NL hint

The `USE_NL` hint instructs the optimizer to use a nest-loop (NL) join to join each specified table to another row source and use the specified table as a right-side table with the NL join algorithm.

The syntax of the `USE_NL` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ USE_NL ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]... ) */
```

We recommend that you use the `USE_NL` and `USE_MERG` hints with the `LEADING` or `ORDERED` hint. If the referenced tables are right-side tables, the optimizer uses these hints. If the referenced tables are left-side tables, the optimizer ignores these hints.

In the following example, a nested loop is forced by using a hint, the `orders` table is accessed by using a full table scan, and the filter condition `l.order_id = h.order_id` is applied to each row. For each row that meets the filter condition, `order_items` is accessed by using the index `order_id`.

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_NL(l h) */ h.customer_id, l.unit_price * l.quantity
FROM orders h, order_items l
WHERE l.order_id = h.order_id;
```

## NO_USE_NL hint

The `NO_USE_NL` hint instructs the optimizer to exclude the nested-loop joins when the optimizer uses the specified table as a right-side table and joins the table with another row source.

The syntax of the `NO_USE_NL` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_USE_NL ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]... ) */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_USE_NL` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ NO_USE_NL(e d) */ *
FROM employees e, departments d
WHERE e.department_id = d.department_id;
```

## USE_BNL hint

The `USE_BNL` hint instructs the optimizer to use a block-nested loop (BNL) join to join each specified table to another row source and use the specified table as a right-side table with the BNL join algorithm.

The syntax of the `USE_BNL` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ USE_BNL ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]... ) */
```

We recommend that you use the `USE_BN` hint with the `LEADING` or `ORDERED` hint. If the referenced tables are right-side tables, the optimizer uses these hints. If the referenced tables are left-side tables, the optimizer ignores these hints.

In the following example, the hint forcibly executes the block nested loops, accesses the `orders` table by table scanning, and applies the filtering conditions `l.order_id = h.order_id` to each row. For each row that meets the filter condition, `order_items` is accessed by using the index `order_id`.

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_BNL(l h) */ h.customer_id, l.unit_price * l.quantity
FROM orders h, order_items l
WHERE l.order_id = h.order_id;
```

## NO_USE_BNL hint

The `NO_USE_BNL` hint instructs the optimizer to exclude the joins used by the `USE_BNL` hint when the optimizer uses the specified table as a right-side table and joins the table to another row resource.

The syntax of the `NO_USE_BNL` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_USE_BNL ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec [ tablespec ]... ) */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_USE_BNL` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ NO_USE_BNL(e d) */ *
FROM employees e, departments d
WHERE e.department_id = d.department_id;
```
