| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Hints related to query conversion

Query conversion hints are `NO_REWRITE`, `NO_EXPAND`, `USE_CONCAT`, `MERGE`, `NO_MERGE`, `UNNEST`, `NO_UNNEST`, `PLACE_GROUP_BY`, `NO_PLACE_GROUP_BY`, and `NO_PRED_DEDUCE`.

## NO_REWRITE hint

The `NO_REWRITE` hint instructs the optimizer to disable query rewrite for the query block.

The syntax of the `NO_REWRITE` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_REWRITE [ ( @queryblock ) ] */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_REWRITE` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ NO_REWRITE */ sum(s.amount_sold) AS dollars
FROM sales s, times t
WHERE s.time_id = t.time_id
GROUP BY t.calendar_month_desc;
```

## NO_EXPAND hint

The `NO_EXPAND` hint instructs the optimizer not to consider `OR` expansion for queries with a `WHERE` clause that has `OR` conditions or `IN` lists. Generally, the optimizer uses `OR` expansion when it decides that the use of `OR` expansion costs lower.

The syntax of the `NO_EXPAND` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_EXPAND [ ( @queryblock ) ] */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_EXPAND` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ NO_EXPAND */ *
  FROM employees e, departments d
  WHERE e.manager_id = 108
     OR d.department_id = 110;
```

## USE_CONCAT hint

The `USE_CONCAT` hint instructs the optimizer to transform a query that has combined `OR` conditions in the `WHERE` clause into a compound query by using the `UNION ALL` operator. If the `USE_CONCAT` hint is not specified, the transformation takes place only when the cost of using a concatenated query is lower than the cost of not using it.

The syntax of the `USE_CONCAT` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ USE_CONCAT [ ( @queryblock ) ] */
```

Here is an example of the `USE_CONCAT` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_CONCAT */ *
  FROM employees e
  WHERE manager_id = 108
     OR department_id = 110;
```

## MERGE hint

The `MERGE` hint allows you to merge views in a query.

The syntax of the `MERGE` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ MERGE [ ( @queryblock )  | ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec ) ] */
```

If the query block of a view has a `GROUP BY` clause or `DISTINCT` operator in the `SELECT` list, the optimizer can merge the view into the accessing statement only when complex view merging is enabled. You can also use complex merging to merge an `IN` subquery into the accessing statement if the subquery is uncorrelated.

Here is an example of the `MERGE` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ MERGE(v) */ e1.last_name, e1.salary, v.avg_salary
   FROM employees e1,
        (SELECT department_id, avg(salary) avg_salary
           FROM employees e2
           GROUP BY department_id) v
   WHERE e1.department_id = v.department_id
     AND e1.salary > v.avg_salary
   ORDER BY e1.last_name;
```

Place a `MERGE` hint in the view query block if the hint is used without an argument. Place a `MERGE` hint in the surrounding query if the hint is used with the view name as an argument.

## NO_MERGE hint

The `NO_MERGE` hint instructs the optimizer not to merge the outer query and inline view queries into a single query.

The syntax of the `NO_MERGE` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_MERGE [ ( @queryblock )  | ( [ @queryblock ] tablespec ) ] */
```

This hint allows you to have more influence over the way you access views. In the following example statement, the `seattle_dept` view is not merged.

```sql
SELECT /*+ NO_MERGE(seattle_dept) */ e.last_name, seattle_dept.dept_name
  FROM employees e,
       (SELECT location_id, dept_id, dept_name
          FROM departments
          WHERE location_id = 1700) seattle_dept
  WHERE e.dept_id = seattle_dept.dept_id;
```

When you use the `NO_MERGE` hint in the view query block, specify it without an argument. When you use the `NO_MERGE` hint in the surrounding query, specify it with the view name as an argument.

## UNNEST hint

The `UNNEST` hint instructs the optimizer to unnest and merge the body of the subquery into the body of the query block that contains the hint, allowing the optimizer to consider them together when evaluating access paths and joins.

The syntax of the `UNNEST` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ UNNEST [ ( @queryblock ) ] */
```

The optimizer verifies whether the subquery is valid before unnesting the subquery. The `UNNEST` hint instructs the optimizer to check only the subquery block for validity. If the subquery block is valid, the subquery is directly unnested.

Here is an example of the `UNNEST` hint:

```sql
SELECT AVG(t1.c) FROM t1
WHERE t1.b >=
    (SELECT /*+UNNEST*/AVG(t2.b)
     FROM t2
     WHERE t1.a = t2.a);
```

## NO_UNNEST hint

The `NO_UNNEST` hint disables unnesting.

The syntax of the `NO_UNNEST` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_UNNEST [ ( @queryblock ) ] */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_UNNEST` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+NO_UNNEST(@qb1)*/AVG(t1.c)
FROM t1 WHERE t1.b >=
    (SELECT /*+qb_name(qb1)*/AVG(t2.b)
     FROM t2)
     WHERE t1.a = t2.a);
```

## PLACE_GROUP_BY hint

The `PLACE_GROUP_BY` hint instructs the optimizer to use the `GROUP BY` placement mechanism regardless of the cost after the transformation.

The syntax of the `PLACE_GROUP_BY` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ PLACE_GROUP_BY [ ( @queryblock ) ] */
```

Here is an example of the `PLACE_GROUP_BY` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+PLACE_GROUP_BY*/SUM(t1.c),SUM(t2.c) FROM t1, t2
WHERE t1.a = t2.a AND t1.b > 10 AND t2.b > 10
GROUP BY t1.a;
```

## NO_PLACE_GROUP_BY hint

The `NO_PLACE_GROUP_BY` hint disables `GROUP BY` replacement.

The syntax of the `NO_PLACE_GROUP_BY` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_PLACE_GROUP_BY [ ( @queryblock ) ] */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_PLACE_GROUP_BY` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+NO_PLACE_GROUP_BY*/SUM(t1.c),SUM(t2.c) FROM t1, t2
WHERE t1.a = t2.a AND t1.b > 10 AND t2.b > 10
GROUP BY t1.a;
```

## NO_PRED_DEDUCE hint

The `NO_PRED_DEDUCE` hint instructs the optimizer not to use the predicate deduction rule.

The syntax of the `NO_PRED_DEDUCE` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_PRED_DEDUCE [ ( @queryblock ) ] */
```

Here is an example of the `NO_PRED_DEDUCE` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+NO_PRED_DEDUCE(@qb1)*/ *
FROM  (
  SELECT /*+no_merge qb_name(qb1)*/ t1.a, t2.b
  FROM t1, t2
  WHERE t1.a = t2.a) v, t3
WHERE t3.a = 1 AND t3.a = v.a;
```
