| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# Other hints

OceanBase Database also supports the `CURSOR_SHARING_EXACT`, `MONITOR`, `PX_JOIN_FILTER`, `NO_PX_JOIN_FILTER`, `QB_NAME`, `READ_CONSISTENCY`, `QUERY_TIMEOUT`, `LOG_LEVEL`, `USE_PLAN_CACHE`, `TRANS_PARAM`, `TRACING`, `STAT`, `TOPK`, and `TRACE_LOG` hints.

## CURSOR_SHARING_EXACT hint

OceanBase Database allows you to replace literals in an SQL statement with bind variables. This feature is controlled by the `cursor_sharing` variable. When `CURSOR_SHARING` is set to `exact`, parameterization is not required. For more information, see [cursor_sharing](../../../../../../../800.configuration-items-and-system-variables/200.system-variable/300.global-system-variable/2000.cursor_sharing-global.md).

You can specify the `CURSOR_SHARING_EXACT` hint to instruct the optimizer to disable this behavior. If this hint is specified, OceanBase Database will not attempt to replace literals with bind variables when executing SQL statements, thereby implementing parameter rewrites.

The syntax of the `CURSOR_SHARING_EXACT` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ CURSOR_SHARING_EXACT */
```

Here is an example of the `CURSOR_SHARING_EXACT` hint:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE t(c1 INT PRIMARY KEY,c2 VARCHAR(20));
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> INSERT INTO t VALUES(5,'oceanbase');
Query OK, 1 row affected

obclient> SELECT /*CURSOR_SHARING_EXACT*/ * FROM t WHERE c1=5 AND c2 ='oceanbase';
+----------+----------+
|    C1    |   C2     |
+----------+----------+
|    5     | oceanbase|
+---------------------+
1 row in set   

obclient> SELECT query_sql, statement FROM gv$ob_plan_cache_plan_stat; GV$OB_PLAN_CACHE_PLAN_STAT
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|  QUERY_SQL                                                                |   STATEMENT                                                   |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| SELECT * FROM t WHERE c1=5 AND c2 ='oceanbase' fetch first 1000 rows only |  SELECT * FROM t WHERE c1=? AND c2 =? fetch first ? rows only |     
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

## MONITOR hint

The `MONITOR` hint implements real-time SQL monitoring by force on queries. The hint also takes effect for statements that are not running for a long time.

The syntax of the `MONITOR` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ MONITOR */
```

## PX_JOIN_FILTER hint

The `PX_JOIN_FILTER` hint forces the optimizer to use parallel join bitmap filtering.

The syntax of the `PX_JOIN_FILTER` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ PX_JOIN_FILTER (tablespec) */
```

## NO_PX_JOIN_FILTER hint

The `NO_PX_JOIN_FILTER` hint prevents the optimizer from using parallel join bitmap filtering.

The syntax of the `NO_PX_JOIN_FILTER` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ NO_PX_JOIN_FILTER (tablespec) */
```

## QB_NAME hint

You can use the `QB_NAME` hint to specify the name of the query block. The name specified with this hint can be used in the hint of an external query or in the hint of the inner-join view, thereby shaping the query of the table in the named query block.

The syntax of the `QB_NAME` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ QB_NAME ( queryblock ) */
```

If two or more query blocks have the same name, or if the same query block is hinted twice with different names, the optimizer ignores all the names and the hints referencing them. Query blocks that are not named by using the `QB_NAME` hint have unique names generated by the system. These names can be displayed in the plan table or used in other hints in the query block.

Here is an example of the `QB_NAME` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ QB_NAME(qb) FULL(@qb e) */ employee_id, last_name
FROM employees e
WHERE last_name = 'Smith';
```

## READ_CONSISTENCY hint

The `READ_CONSISTENCY` hint instructs the server to specify that the table read by an SQL statement is in

`WEAK` or `STRONG` mode.

The syntax of the `READ_CONSISTENCY` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ READ_CONSISTENCY(WEAK[STRONG]) */
```

Here is an example of the `READ_CONSISTENCY` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ READ_CONSISTENCY(WEAK) */ *
FROM employees
WHERE employees.department_id = 1001;
```

## QUERY_TIMEOUT hint

The `QUERY_TIMEOUT` hint instructs the server to set the execution timeout period for an SQL statement, in microseconds.

The syntax of the `QUERY_TIMEOUT` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ QUERY_TIMEOUT (intnum) */
```

In the following example, a timeout error is returned if the execution of the statement is not completed within one second.

```sql
SELECT /*+ QUERY_TIMEOUT(1000000) */ *
FROM employees e
WHERE e.department_id = 1001;
```

## LOG_LEVEL hint

The `LOG_LEVEL` hint specifies the log level that the server executes when running an SQL statement.

The syntax of the `LOG_LEVEL` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ LOG_LEVEL ([']log_level[']) */
```

The following example uses the `DEBUG` log level to execute the SQL statement:

```sql
SELECT /*+ LOG_LEVEL(DEBUG) */ *
FROM employees e
WHERE e.department_id = 1001;
```

## USE_PLAN_CACHE hint

The `USE_PLAN_CACHE` hint specifies whether the server needs to run an SQL statement in the plan caching mechanism. The parameter `NONE` indicates not to execute the plan caching mechanism, whereas the parameter `DEFAULT` indicates to execute or not execute the plan caching mechanism based on the server settings.

The syntax of the `USE_PLAN_CACHE` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ USE_PLAN_CACHE (NONE[DEFAULT]) */
```

The following example does not run the SQL statement by using the plan caching mechanism:

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_PLAN_CACHE(NONE) */ *
FROM employees e
WHERE e.department_id = 1001;
```

## TRANS_PARAM hint

The `TRANS_PARAM` hint specifies whether the server needs to process transactions based on the parameters specified in `param`. OceanBase Database supports only the `FORCE_EARLY_LOCK_FREE` parameter for row unlocking at the transaction level in advance. When `FORCE_EARLY_LOCK_FREE` is **TRUE**, row unlocking at the transaction level in advance is supported. The value **FALSE** indicates that row unlocking is not supported. Note that the parameter names and values must be enclosed in single quotation marks ('), except for parameter values of a numeric type.

The syntax of the `TRANS_PARAM` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ TRANS_PARAM ['param' , 'param_value'] */
```

Here is an example of the `TRANS_PARAM` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ TRANS_PARAM('FORCE_EARLY_LOCK_FREE' 'TRUE') */ *
FROM employees e
WHERE e.department_id = 1001;
```

## TRACING hint

The `TRACING` hint instructs the server to use `TRACING` to trace operators in some execution plans.

The syntax of the `TRACING` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ TRACING(TRACING_NUM_LIST)*/
```

Here is an example of the `TRACING` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ TRACING(1) */ *
FROM employees e
WHERE e.department_id = 1001;
```

## STAT hint

The `STAT` hint instructs the server to use `STAT` to display information for operators in some execution plans.

The syntax of the `STAT` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ STAT(TRACING_NUM_LIST) */
```

Here is an example of the `STAT` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ STAT(1) */ *
FROM employees e
WHERE e.department_id = 1001;
```

## TOPK hint

The `TOPK` hint instructs the server to set the precision and a minimum number of rows for fuzzy queries. The value of the `PRECISION` parameter is an integer type with a value range of [0, 100], which means the percentage of rows queried in a fuzzy query. `MINIMUM_ROWS` specifies the minimum number of returned rows.

The syntax of the `TOPK` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ TOPK(PRECISION MINIMUM_ROWS) */
```

Here is an example of the `TOPK` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ TOPK(1,10) */ *
FROM employees e
WHERE e.department_id = 1001;
```

## TRACE_LOG hint

The `TRACE_LOG` hint instructs the server to collects trace logs. The collected trace logs are displayed when the `SHOW TRACE` command is executed.

The syntax of the `TRACE_LOG` hint is as follows:

```sql
/*+ TRACE_LOG */
```

Here is an example of the `TRACE_LOG` hint:

```sql
SELECT /*+ TRACE_LOG */ *
FROM employees e
WHERE e.department_id = 1001;
```
