# OMA

OceanBase Migration Assessment (OMA) is a database migration product of OceanBase that provides accurate compatibility assessment, efficient performance assessment, and application logic restructuring suggestions. OMA can assess the compatibility of OceanBase Database with other databases such as Oracle, DB2 LUW, and PostgreSQL and provide profile analysis and automatic conversion solutions. It supports application load replay, which helps customers predict the possible performance risks after migration and provides optimization solutions. It also supports assessing the compatibility of OceanBase Database with systems in C, systems that run Java service code, and various drivers, which helps customers migrate data to OceanBase Database with high efficiency and low costs. 

## Compatibility assessment

OMA provides a comprehensive compatibility assessment report for migrating data from various database instances, including Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, TiDB, DB2 LUW, RDS MySQL, PolarDB for MySQL, PolarDB for Oracle, and DRDS, to OceanBase Database. The report lists specific causes of incompatibility with Oracle and MySQL databases and provides recommended solutions. However, for other types of database instances, the assessment report only provides the reasons for incompatibility without any recommended solutions. 

OMA can assess the objects and SQL or PL statements of databases.

* Database object assessment

   * You can directly connect OMA to the source database, automatically obtain information about objects in the source database, and assess the compatibility of OceanBase Database with the source database. 

   * OMA can assess the compatibility of DDL statements in Oracle and MySQL databases. It can also assess DDL statements separated with double dollar signs ($$) in TEXT files. 

   * You can use a lightweight client to connect OMA to an Oracle database and export DDL statements for compatibility assessment. 

   * OMA can directly read the DDL statements exported by using MySQLDump for compatibility assessment. 

   * OMA allows you to use db2look to export DDL statements for compatibility assessment. 

* Assessment of SQL or PL statements

   * You can directly connect OMA to an Oracle database, scan the V$SQL view to obtain SQL statements of the corresponding schema, and then assess the compatibility of these SQL statements with OceanBase Database. 

   * OMA can assess the compatibility of SQL or PL statements that are separated with semicolons (;) or double dollar signs ($$) in TEXT files. 

   * OMA can directly parse SQL statements in MyBatis and iBatis files to assess the compatibility of these statements. 

   * You can directly connect OMA to an Oracle database, periodically scan the V$SQL view to obtain all SQL statements in a specific period, and then assess these SQL statements. 

   * You can directly connect OMA to a DB2 LUW database, periodically scan the snapshots for dynamic SQL statements to obtain all SQL statements in a specific period, and then assess these SQL statements. 

* Database assessment

   The database assessment feature allows you to assess objects, SQL statements, and database profiles in one assessment task and view the corresponding assessment results in one report. 

   OMA supports different database assessment modes for Oracle, MySQL, TiDB, PostgreSQL, and DB2 LUW databases. 

## Performance assessment

OMA supports SQL replay and stress testing.

* You can connect OMA to the source database, collect SELECT statements, and then replay the SQL statements in an OceanBase database to verify the compatibility of the SQL statements and the performance of OceanBase Database. 

* OMA allows you to collect the workload capture replay (WCR) files of an Oracle database, parse the WCR files to obtain SQL statements, and then assess the compatibility of the SQL statements. You can also replay the SQL statements in an OceanBase database to verify their accuracy and performance. 

* OMA can parse and replay the general log files of MySQL databases. 

* During the upgrade of an OceanBase database, OMA supports pulling query statements from the database before the upgrade and replaying the statements in the database after the upgrade. 

## Object and SQL statement export from OceanBase Database

* OMA allows you to export DDL statements for objects in the corresponding schema from an OceanBase database. 

* OMA allows you to export all SQL statements in the SQL_AUDIT view for a specific period from an OceanBase database. 
