# ODC

ODC is an enterprise-level database development platform tailored for OceanBase Database. ODC is connected to OceanBase Database in MySQL or Oracle mode. It also provides database developers with various features, such as daily development operations, WebSQL-based workspace, SQL diagnostics, session management, and data import and export. 

ODC adopts the mature browser/server architecture, which supports cross-platform capabilities and is lightweight and easy to deploy. ODC also provides a client version to help individual developers get started with OceanBase. It also improves the collaboration efficiency between developers and database administrators (DBAs). 

## Features

ODC is an enterprise-level development platform designed for OceanBase Database. In ODC, you can edit and manage database objects and resources. 

### Database object management

* ODC provides instructions to help you create various database objects. In ODC, you can modify database objects in a visualized manner. 

* In addition, ODC provides the recycle bin feature for you to restore or clear deleted objects. 

### Enterprise-class partitioning feature

* ODC supports all types of partitioning in OceanBase in the MySQL and Oracle modes. 

* ODC also provides user-friendly instructions on the entire partitioning process. This makes the partitioning feature easy to use. 

### Web console

* The ODC console supports Data Definition Language (DDL), Data Manipulation Language (DML), and secure data update. 

* The ODC console supports Web SQL to help you use various OceanBase features for development. 

* The ODC console provides user-friendly features, such as syntax highlighting, formatting, and smart tips, that suit the MySQL and Oracle modes of OceanBase Database. 

* The ODC console allows you to edit data in a visualized manner, which is similar to data editing in Excel. 

## Data import and export

* ODC offers efficient data import and export capabilities specifically designed for the OceanBase Database.

* With ODC, you can easily import and export files in various formats.

### Database variable editing

* ODC allows you to modify session variables and global variables in a visualized manner. 

* ODC makes variables easier to remember. 

* ODC increases the efficiency of customizing variables based on business scenarios. 


### Resource performance

* ODC allows you to manage and control database sessions in real time. You can also view and terminate sessions. 

* ODC provides the features of SQL execution plan analysis and SQL tuning.