Create a tenant 
====================================

You can create a tenant by using SQL statements. 

Create a tenant by using SQL statements 
------------------------------------------------------------

OceanBase Database supports MySQL tenants only. To create a tenant by using the `CREATE TENANT` command, access the sys tenant as the root user (`root@sys`). After you create a tenant, you can specify the type and whitelist for the tenant. 

The following is the syntax for creating a tenant:

```sql
CREATE TENANT [IF NOT EXISTS] tenantname
     [tenant_characteristic_list]
     [tenant_variables_list]

tenant_characteristic_list:
    tenant_characteristic [, tenant_characteristic...]

tenant_characteristic:
    COMMENT 'string'
    | {CHARACTER SET | CHARSET} [=] value
    | REPLICA_NUM [=] num
    | ZONE_LIST [=] (zone [, zone])
    | PRIMARY_ZONE [=] zone
    | RESOURCE_POOL_LIST [=] (poolname)
    | {READ ONLY | READ WRITE}

tenant_variables_list:
    SET sys_variables_list
    | SET VARIABLES sys_variables_list
    | VARIABLES sys_variables_list

sys_variables_list:
    sys_variables [, sys_variables...]

sys_variables:
    sys_variable_name = expr
```



Note:

* If the tenant name already exists and `IF NOT EXISTS` is not specified, an error will be reported.

  

* Same as a variable, a tenant name can contain up to 30 characters, which consist of only uppercase letters, lowercase letters, digits, and underscores (_). The tenant name must start with a letter or an underscore (_) and cannot be a keyword of OceanBase Database.

  

* You can specify a resource pool for the tenant.

  

* `RESOURCE_POOL_LIST` must be specified when you create a tenant.

* `RESOURCE_POOL_LIST` in the `CREATE TENANT` command supports only one resource pool at present. 




**Example 1:** 

The following statement creates a MySQL tenant named `test_tenant` with three replicas. By default, a new tenant is in MySQL mode. 

```sql
obclient> CREATE TENANT IF NOT EXISTS test_tenant charset='utf8mb4', replica_num=3, zone_list=('zone1','zone2','zone3'), primary_zone='zone1;zone2,zone3', resource_pool_list=('pool1')
```



**Example 2:** 

The following statement sets the value of the `ob_tcp_innvited_nodes` variable to `%` after the tenant is created, which allows connections from any client IP address to the tenant. If you do not modify the value of this variable, the tenant only allows connections that use the IP address of the local machine. 

```sql
obclient> CREATE TENANT IF NOT EXISTS test_tenant charset='utf8mb4', replica_num=3, zone_list=('zone1','zone2','zone3'), primary_zone='zone1;zone2,zone3', resource_pool_list=('pool1') SET ob_tcp_invited_nodes='%' 
```



Note:

* `primary_zone` specifies the zone where the partition leader of the table of the tenant is located. For example, `primary_ zone =' zone1; zone2, zone3'` indicates that the partition leader of the table is in `zone1` for the tenant. zone1 is separated from zone2 and zone3 with a semicolon (;).

  

* `zone2` and `zone3` are separated with a comma (,) indicating that `zone2` and `zone3` share the same priority, which is lower than that of `zone1`.

  

* `primary_zone` can be set to `RANDOM`, which must be in uppercase, to indicate a random primary zone.

  




The minimum memory size of a common tenant must be at least 5 GB. Otherwise, the tenant cannot be created. To create a tenant for simple feature tests, you can change the value of `alter system __min_full_resource_pool_memory` to `1073741824` to allow a minimum memory size of 1 GB for new tenants.


  
 

   



