# Adjust the log archiving speed of the primary tenant

OceanBase Database allows you to monitor the log archiving progress of the primary tenant in real time. If the archive checkpoint of the primary tenant is significantly different from the current time, log archiving of the primary tenant may be bottlenecked. You can adjust the log archiving concurrency of the primary tenant by modifying the tenant-level `log_archive_concurrency` parameter to accelerate the archiving speed of the primary tenant.

For more information about how to view the log archiving speed of the primary tenant, see [View the archiving progress](../../6.backup-and-recovery/3.log-archive/7.view-log-archive-history.md).

## Procedure

1. Log on to the database as the administrator of the `sys` tenant or the primary tenant.

2. Set the `log_archive_concurrency` parameter to an appropriate value.

   The tenant-level `log_archive_concurrency` parameter specifies the total number of worker threads for log archiving. The modification of this parameter takes effect immediately without restarting the OBServer node. The default value of this parameter is `1` and the valid value ranges from [1 to 10]. If you set this parameter to a value greater than 10, `10` will be used instead. We recommend that you use the default value because more threads consume more memory.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>If the tenant is configured with 2 or 4 CPU cores, we recommend that you use the default value. </p>
   </main>

   Execute the following statement to set the log archiving concurrency:

   * Execute the following statement in the primary tenant to adjust the log archiving speed of the primary tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET log_archive_concurrency = 10;
      ```

   * Execute the following statement in the `sys` tenant to adjust the log archiving speed of a specified tenant:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET log_archive_concurrency = 10 TENANT = oracle;
      ```

   * Execute the following statement in the `sys` tenant to adjust the log archiving speed of all tenants:

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET log_archive_concurrency = 10 TENANT = ALL;
      ```

   For more information about the `log_archive_concurrency` parameter, see [log_archive_concurrency](../../../7.reference/5.system-reference/1.system-configuration-items/3.cluster-level-configuration-items/250.log_archive_concurrency.md).

## References

* [Adjust the log synchronization performance of a standby tenant](5.adjust-the-log-synchronization-performance-of-the-standby-tenant.md)

* [View the archiving progress](../../6.backup-and-recovery/3.log-archive/7.view-log-archive-history.md)
