# Preparations

You must execute the `ALTER SYSTEM` statement to configure the archive destination in the `LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST` parameter before you enable log archiving. The sys tenant is used for managing clusters and does not contain user data or support backup and recovery. Therefore, you do not need to configure the archive destination for the `sys` tenant.

## Configure the archive destination

Set the `LOCATION`, `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL`, and `BINDING` attributes of the archive destination.

1. Log on to the database as an administrator of the `sys` tenant or a user tenant.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
        <h4>Note:</h4>
   <p>The administrator user is <code>root</code> in MySQL mode and <code>SYS</code> in Oracle mode. </p>
   </main>

2. Configure the archive destination.

   * Configure the archive destination for a specified tenant in the sys tenant

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=xxx [PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=xxx] [BINDING=xxx]' TENANT = tenant_name;
      ```

   * Configure the archive destination for the current tenant in a user tenant

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=xxx [PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=xxx] [BINDING=xxx]';
      ```

   You can query the settings from the `DBA_OB_ARCHIVELOG_SUMMARY` view. For more information, see [View the archiving parameter settings](8.view-parameters-of-log-archive.md).

   Procedure:

   * (Required) Set `LOCATION`.

      The `LOCATION` attribute specifies the archive destination. OceanBase Database supports two types of media as the archive destination: Network File System (NFS) and Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS).

      * NFS

           <main id="notice" type='notice'>
            <h4>Notice:</h4>
            <p>When you use NFS as the archive destination, consider the following points:</p>
            <ul>
            <li>The value of <code>LOCATION</code> cannot be a string with a question mark (?). </li>
            <li>The value of <code>LOCATION</code> must be an absolute path, and the OBServer node must have read and write privileges on the destination specified by <code>LOCATION</code>. </li>
            <li>Ensure that all OBServer nodes are mounted to NFS of the same server and use the parameter settings recommended in this topic. For more information about the procedure of deploying NFS, see <a href="../2.deploy-nfs.md">Deploy the NFS client</a>. </li>
            </ul>
           </main>

         To set NFS as the archive destination, execute the following statement:

         ```shell
         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive' TENANT = mysql_tenant;

         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive';
         ```

         In this example, `file://` specifies that NFS is used as the media for the archive destination, and the archive path is `/data/nfs/backup/archive`.

      * Alibaba Cloud OSS

         When you use OSS as the archive destination, besides the archive path and the `host`, `access_key`, and `access_id` parameters, you can also set the `delete_mode` parameter to configure the cleanup mode for archived files.

         The `delete_mode` parameter has two values: `delete` and `tagging`. If you do not specify this parameter, the default value `delete` takes effect.

         * `delete`: Archived files that meet the cleanup requirements are directly deleted.

            In this mode, when you enable automatic cleanup for archived files in automatic mode, the system directly deletes the archived files that meet the requirements.

            <main id="notice" type='notice'>
               <h4>Notice:</h4>
               <p>This is the default cleanup mode. If you do not specify <code>delete_mode</code>, the default cleanup mode <code>delete</code> takes effect. </p>
            </main>

         * `tagging`: The archived files that meet the cleanup requirements are tagged and retained.

            In this mode, when you enable automatic cleanup for archived files, the system directly tags the archived files that meet the cleanup requirements. The key of the tag is `delete_mode` and the value is `tagging`. In this way, you can manage the lifecycle of these files on OSS based on the tags.

         For more information about the automatic cleanup of archived data in `delete` or `tagging` mode, see [Automatic cleanup of archived data](../5.clear-backup-data/1.cleaning-up-backed-up-data-automatically.md).

         To set OSS as the archive destination and configure the `tagging` cleanup mode, execute the following statement:

         ```shell
         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx&delete_mode=tagging' TENANT = mysql_tenant;

         obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=oss://oceanbase-test-bucket/backup/archive?host=xxx.aliyun-inc.com&access_id=xxx&access_key=xxx&delete_mode=tagging';
         ```

         In this example, `oss://` specifies that OSS is the archive destination. The storage bucket is named `oceanbase-test-bucket`. The path in the storage bucket is `/backup/archive`. The question mark (`?`) is used to  separate other parameters of the path. The `host` parameter specifies the host address of the storage bucket. The `access_id` and `access_key` parameters specify the access key of OSS. The cleanup mode is set to `tagging`.

   * (Optional) Set the `BINDING` attribute.

      The `BINDING` attribute specifies the prioritizing mode for archiving and businesses. The BINDING attribute has two values: `Optional` and `Mandatory`. If you do not specify this attribute, the default value `Optional` takes effect.

      * The `Optional` mode prioritizes user businesses. In this mode, when log archiving falls behind log generation, logs may be recycled before being archived. This causes an interruption.

      * The `Mandatory` mode prioritizes archiving. In this mode, you may be unable to write more data before existing data is archived.

      Here is an example:

      ```shell
      obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Mandatory' TENANT = mysql_tenant;

      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Optional';
      ```

   * (Optional) Set the `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` attribute.

      The `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` attribute specifies the switching interval for pieces. The value range is `[1d, 7d]`. If you do not specify this attribute, the default value `1d` takes effect.

      To configure an archive path and generate a log piece every two days, execute the following statement:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Optional PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=1d' TENANT = mysql_tenant;

      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST='LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Optional PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=1d';
      ```

## Considerations

After you set the `LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST` parameter, the system will create a file named `format` by default in the directory where the configured destination is located. This file is used to verify the validity of the archive destination and ensure the integrity of the data at the destination. Therefore, note the following items when you configure the log archive destination:

* If the `format` file does not exist, the directory where the configured destination is located must be empty so that the `LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST` parameter can be set. If this directory is not empty, the system returns the `-9080` error to indicate that the `format` file does not exist.

* If the `format` file exists, its content must be verified so that the parameter can be set. Otherwise, the system returns the `-9081` error to indicate that the `format` file does not match. The content of the `format` file is verified to check whether the types of the cluster, tenant, and backup destination in the file match those of the current cluster, tenant, and backup destination.

* When you execute a backup job, the job fails to be initiated if the `format` file does not exist or fails the verification.

In addition, incremental configuration is not supported after the archive destination is configured. For example, the `BINDING` attribute is set to `Mandatory` and the `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` attribute is set to `1d` for the archive path `/data/nfs/backup/archive` in NFS. To update `PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL` to `2d` but keep `BINDING` as `Mandatory`, you still need to specify values for other attributes. Otherwise, the default values are used for unspecified attributes.

Execute the following statement to modify the attribute settings:

```shell
obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM SET LOG_ARCHIVE_DEST = 'LOCATION=file:///data/nfs/backup/archive BINDING=Mandatory PIECE_SWITCH_INTERVAL=2d' TENANT = mysql_tenant;
```

## More information

[View the archiving parameter settings](8.view-parameters-of-log-archive.md)
