# Enable log archiving

After you complete the preparations, you can enable log archiving based on the business scenario.

## Prerequisites

Before you enable log archiving, make sure that the log archiving state machine of the tenant for which log archiving is to be enabled is in the `STOP` state. For more information about the log archiving state machine, see [Overview](1.overview-of-log-archive.md).

## Background

Assume that the current cluster contains three tenants: `sys`, `mysql_tenant`, and `oracle_tenant`, and that log archiving preparations have been made for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants.

## Initiate log archiving from the sys tenant

You can initiate log archiving for all tenants or a specified tenant in the cluster from the `sys` tenant.

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of a cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to initiate log archiving.

   * Initiate log archiving for all tenants in the cluster

      The following statement will initiate log archiving for all tenants in the cluster. Note that the system will not automatically initiate log archiving for tenants created after this operation.

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ARCHIVELOG TENANT=ALL;
      ```

      In this example, the system initiates log archiving for the `mysql_tenant` and `oracle_tenant` tenants in the cluster.

   * Initiate log archiving for a specified tenant in the cluster

      You can initiate log archiving for a specified tenant without affecting other tenants in the cluster.

      Execute the following statement to initiate log archiving for the `mysql_tenant` tenant:

      ```shell
      obclient [(none)]> ALTER SYSTEM ARCHIVELOG TENANT=MYSQL_TENANT;
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note:</h4>
      <p>If you specify multiple tenants, separate the tenant names with commas (<code>,</code>). </p>
      </main>

      After the statement is executed, the system initiates log archiving for the `mysql_tenant` tenant.

After you enable log archiving, the system organizes and manages archived log data based on pieces. For more information about pieces, see [Overview](1.overview-of-log-archive.md).

## Initiate log archiving for a user tenant

You can initiate log archiving for a user tenant without affecting other tenants.

1. Log on to the database as a tenant administrator.

   In this example, you can log on to the `mysql_tenant` tenant as the `root` user, or to the `oracle_tenant` tenant as the `SYS` user.

2. Execute the following statement to enable log archiving:

   ```shell
   obclient [xxx]> ALTER SYSTEM ARCHIVELOG;
   ```

## References

* [Disable log archiving](4.stop-log-archive.md)

* [View the archiving progress](6.view-log-archive-progress.md)

* [View the archiving history](7.view-log-archive-history.md)
