# Cursor execution process

The complete execution process of a cursor consists of the following operations: use the `DECLARE` statement to declare the cursor, use the `OPEN` statement to open the cursor, use the `FETCH` statement to fetch the next row, and use the `CLOSE` statement to close the cursor.

## Declare a cursor

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
DECLARE cursor_name CURSOR FOR select_statement
```

This syntax associates a cursor with a `SELECT` statement that does not contain the `INTO` clause. The `SELECT` statement can retrieve rows to be traversed by the cursor. To fetch rows later, use the `FETCH` statement. The number of columns retrieved by the `SELECT` statement must match the number of output variables specified in the `FETCH` statement.

The cursor declaration must be prior to the handler declaration but after the variable and condition declaration. A stored program can contain multiple cursor declarations. However, a cursor declared in a specified block must have a unique name.

In most cases, you can use a cursor with the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` table to obtain equivalent information as that obtained by the `SHOW` statement.

## Open a cursor

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
OPEN cursor_name
```


## Fetch the next row

To fetch the next row of the `SELECT` statement associated with the specified cursor, which must have been opened, and advance the pointer of the cursor, use the following syntax:

```sql
FETCH [[NEXT] FROM] cursor_name INTO var_name [, var_name] ...
```

If the row exists, the retrieved column is stored in the `var_name` variable. The number of columns retrieved by the `SELECT` statement must match the number of output variables specified in the `FETCH` statement.

If no more row is available, the value of `SQLSTATE` will be `02000`, which indicates no data. To detect this situation, you can set an exception handler or set a `NOT FOUND` condition. Note that the `SELECT` statement or other `FETCH` statements may also encounter the same situation, which will then cause the execution of the exception handler. To identify the operation that causes this situation, put this operation in its `BEGIN END` block so that the operation is associated only with its own exception handler.

## Close a cursor

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CLOSE cursor_name
```


If you execute this statement on a cursor that is not opened, an error is returned. If a cursor is not explicitly closed, it will be closed when the execution of the `BEGIN END` block where this cursor is declared is completed.

## Examples

```sql
obclient> DELIMITER //

obclient> CREATE PROCEDURE hr_curdemo()
   BEGIN
     DECLARE done INT DEFAULT FALSE;
     DECLARE x, y, z INT;
     DECLARE cur1 CURSOR FOR SELECT id,salary FROM hr.emp;
     DECLARE cur2 CURSOR FOR SELECT avg_sal FROM hr.avg;
     DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR NOT FOUND SET done = TRUE;

     OPEN cur1;
     OPEN cur2;

     read_loop: LOOP
       FETCH cur1 INTO x, y;
       FETCH cur2 INTO z;
       IF done THEN
         LEAVE read_loop;
       END IF;
       IF y < z THEN
         INSERT INTO hr.low_sal VALUES (x,y);
       ELSE
         INSERT INTO hr.high_sal VALUES (x,z);
       END IF;
     END LOOP;

     CLOSE cur1;
     CLOSE cur2;
   END //

Query OK, 0 rows affected
```
