|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|

# Transaction isolation levels in Oracle mode

## Isolation levels supported in Oracle mode

The Oracle mode of OceanBase Database supports the following isolation levels:

* Read committed: A query executed by a transaction can read only the data committed before the query starts. This isolation level cannot prevent non-repeatable or phantom reads.

* Serializable: A query for a transaction can read only the data committed before the transaction starts. This is the strictest isolation level. It can prevent dirty, non-repeatable, and phantom reads. At this isolation level, it seems as if transactions are serially executed.

By default, OceanBase Database uses the **read committed** isolation level.

## Isolation level behavior comparison

Oracle Database supports the **read committed** and **serializable** isolation levels. In the Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, the behavior under these two isolation levels is consistent with that of Oracle Database.

## Isolation level settings

You can set the isolation level to the transaction level or the session level.

* Transaction level

   ```sql
   obclient> SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL SERIALIZABLE;
   ```

   After you set a transaction isolation level, the isolation level takes effect only for the next transaction and the configurations will not be modified.

* Session level

   ```sql
   obclient> ALTER SESSION SET ISOLATION_LEVEL = SERIALIZABLE;
   ```

## Limitations

* You cannot set the isolation level during transaction execution. Otherwise, the following error is reported:

   ```javascript
   ERROR:ORA-01453: SET TRANSACTION must be first statement of transaction
   ```

* You need to make sure that Global Timestamp Service (GTS) is enabled before you enable the Serializable isolation level.

* When you run session transactions, you need to set the isolation level to the session level. This isolation level can be overridden by isolation levels at the transaction level.
