|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Overview

OceanBase Database allows you to insert data into a database by using bypass import. In other words, OceanBase Database can directly write data into data files. With the bypass import feature, you can bypass interfaces in the SQL layer and directly allocate space and insert data into data files, thereby improving the data import efficiency.

## Scenarios

The bypass import feature applies to the following scenarios:

* Data migration and synchronization: For large-scale data migration and synchronization, bypass import can be more efficient compared with the traditional SQL interface, especially when importing data of various formats from different data sources into OceanBase Database.

* Traditional ETL: Bypass import can improve data loading performance when a large amount of data needs to be loaded in a short period, such as in traditional ETL (extract, transform, load) processes. It can also enhance efficiency in ELT (extract, load, transform) processes during data loading.

* Data loading from text files or other data sources to OceanBase Database: Bypass import can accelerate the data loading process from various data sources.

## Supported statements for bypass import

At present, OceanBase Database supports the following statements for bypass import:

* `LOAD DATA /*+ direct */`

* `INSERT /*+ append */ INTO SELECT`

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<ul><li>Column store tables support bypass import. </li>
<li><code>LOB</code> columns support bypass import. </li></ul>
</main>

## Limitations

* Limitations on the `LOAD DATA` statement are as follows:

   * You cannot execute two statements to write the same table at a time because a lock is added to the table during import.

   * The statement cannot be used in triggers.

   * The statement cannot be executed in a multi-row transaction.


* Limitations on the `INSERT INTO SELECT` statement are as follows:

   * Only parallel data manipulation language (PDML) data can be imported in bypass mode.

   * You cannot execute two statements to write the same table at a time because a lock is added to the table during import.

   * The statement cannot be used in triggers.

   * The statement cannot be executed in a multi-row transaction that contains multiple operations.


## Considerations

Bypass import will write all existing data. If the source table contains a large amount of data but only a small amount of data needs to be imported, bypass import is inappropriate in this case.

## References

* [Import data in bypass mode by using the LOAD DATA statement](../1100.bypass-import/200.use-load-data-statement-to-bypass-import-data.md)

* [Import data in bypass mode by using the INSERT INTO SELECT statement](../1100.bypass-import/300.use-insert-into-select-statement-to-bypass-import-data.md)