# Install and deploy oblogproxy by using the installation package

You can deploy oblogproxy by using the installation package or using the source code. This topic describes how to deploy oblogproxy by using the installation package.

## Background information

oblogproxy is a proxy service for managing incremental logs of OceanBase Database. It is a part of OceanBase Migration Service (OMS). Designed based on obcdc, oblogproxy provides links for applications to access and manage real-time incremental logs of OceanBase Database.

oblogproxy allows you to subscribe to incremental logs in isolated networks and supports multiple access methods. You can perform the following steps to configure and use oblogproxy.

## Install oblogproxy

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>You do not need to specify information about OceanBase clusters when you configure oblogproxy. Technically, oblogproxy can subscribe to multiple OceanBase clusters when it is connected to all OBServer nodes by using the specified account and password of the sys tenant of each cluster. For security, the account and password are not exposed to oblogclient users. </li>
    <li>oblogproxy is stateless. It obtains information about databases and tables for data subscription from oblogclient. The information such as the timestamps of incremental logs is also stored by oblogclient. When oblogproxy resumes the connection to an OBServer node after disconnection, it is equivalent to creating a new connection. </li>
    <li>oblogproxy consumes a large amount of memory. We recommend that you deploy oblogproxy and the OBServer nodes on different servers to avoid affecting the database performance. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

### Download and install oblogproxy

You can download the package of [oblogproxy V1.1.0](https://github.com/oceanbase/oblogproxy/releases/tag/v1.1.0) from the GitHub open-source community.

Decompress the package to the installation directory, which is `/usr/local` in this example.

Run the following command to decompress the package:

```shell
tar -zxf oblogproxy-ce-for-4x-xxxx.tar.gz -C /usr/local
```

After decompression, specify the temporary environment variables.

* Specify the path for running logproxy.

   ```shell
   export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/oblogproxy/bin
   ```

* Specify the dependency path.

   ```shell
   export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/local/oblogproxy/liboblog
   ```

### Configure the sys tenant

For security, you must specify the username and password of a user for oblogproxy. Only a user in the sys tenant of OceanBase Database can be connected.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The username here does not contain the cluster name or tenant name. </p>
  </main>

```shell
sh run.sh config_sys sys_user sys_pwd
```

where

* `sys_user` specifies the username.
* `sys_pwd` specifies the user password.

Here is an example:

```shell
sh run.sh config_sys sys passwd
```

### Run oblogproxy

Go to the oblogproxy directory.

```shell
cd /usr/local/oblogproxy
```

Run the following command to start the service:

```shell
./run.sh start
```

By default, the `2983` port is listened to. You can set the `service_port` field in the `conf.json` file to change the port. The service logs of oblogproxy are stored in the `logs/` directory. The service logs of the LogReader thread are stored in the `run/{client-id}/logs/` directory.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>You can then use oblogclient for OceanBase data subscription. For more information, see <a href="https://github.com/oceanbase/oblogclient">oblogclient documentation</a>. </p>
  </main>

## Use oblogclient for data subscription

You can use oblogclient to subscribe to data from OceanBase Database. Make sure that you have installed [Maven](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.oceanbase.logclient/logproxy-client) dependencies before use.

```java
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.oceanbase.logclient</groupId>
  <artifactId>logproxy-client</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.7</version>
</dependency>
```

After that, you can configure the oblogclient by referencing the following sample code:

```java
ObReaderConfig config = new ObReaderConfig();
// Specify the IP addresses of OceanBase root servers and separate multiple IP addresses with semicolons (;) in the following format: ip1:rpc_port1:sql_port1;ip2:rpc_port2:sql_port2
config.setRsList("xxx.xxx.xxx.1:2882:2881;xxx.xxx.xxx.2:2882:2881");
// Specify the username and password (user tenant).
config.setUsername("r***");
config.setPassword("****");
// Specify the UNIX start timestamp in seconds. A value of 0 specifies to start the client from the current time.
config.setStartTimestamp(0L);
// Specify the subscription allowlist in the tenant.db.table format. Use asterisks (*) as wildcards.
config.setTableWhiteList("sys.*.*");

// Specify the IP address of the server where oblogproxy is deployed to create the client instance.
LogProxyClient client = new LogProxyClient("xxx.xxx.xxx.1", 2983, config);
// Add the RecordListener.
client.addListener(new RecordListener() {
    @Override
    public void notify(LogMessage message){
        // Process the message.
    }

    @Override
    public void onException(LogProxyClientException e) {
        // Handle the error.
        if (e.needStop()) {
            // Stop the client when an unrecoverable exception occurs.
            client.stop();
        }
    }
});

// Start the client.
client.start();
client.join();
```

## More information

For more information about oblogclient, see [oblogclient](https://github.com/oceanbase/oblogclient).
