# CHAR and VARCHAR

The `CHAR` and `VARCHAR` types are similar, but they differ in the storage and retrieval methods, the maximum length, and whether trailing spaces are retained.

## CHAR


The length specified in the `CHAR` type is the maximum number of characters that can be stored. For example, `CHAR(30)` indicates that 30 characters can be contained.

Syntax:

```sql
[NATIONAL] CHAR[(M)] [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

The `CHARACTER SET` attribute specifies the character set. If necessary, you can use `COLLATE` and other attributes to specify the collation of the character set. If `CHARACTER SET` specifies the binary character set, the column is created as a binary string column, and the `CHAR` type changes to the `BINARY` type.

The length of a `CHAR` column can be a value between 0 and 255 characters. When a `CHAR` value is stored, the value is right-padded with spaces to the specified length.

Excess trailing spaces in the value inserted to a `CHAR` column are silently truncated, regardless of the SQL mode. In the retrieval of a `CHAR` value, if the `PAD_CHAR_TO_FULL_LENGTH` SQL mode is disabled, trailing spaces are truncated.

## VARCHAR

The length specified in the `VARCHAR` type is the maximum number of characters that can be stored. For example, `VARCHAR(50)` indicates that 50 characters can be contained.

Syntax:

```sql
[NATIONAL] VARCHAR(M) [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

The `CHARACTER SET` attribute specifies the character set. If necessary, you can use `COLLATE` and other attributes to specify the collation of the character set. If `CHARACTER SET` specifies the binary character set, the column is created as a binary string column, and the `VARCHAR` type changes to the `VARBINARY` type.

The length of a `VARCHAR` column can be a value between 0 and 65,535 characters.

Compared with the `CHAR` value, the `VARCHAR` value is stored with a prefix of one or two characters. The prefix indicates the number of characters in the value. The prefix occupies one character if the value does not exceed 255 characters, or two characters if the value exceeds 255 characters.

Excess trailing spaces in the value inserted to a `VARCHAR` column are truncated, regardless of the SQL mode, and an alert is generated.

A `VARCHAR` value is not padded when it is stored. To comply with standard SQL, trailing spaces are preserved when the value is stored or retrieved.

In addition, OceanBase Database supports the extended `CHARACTER VARYING(m)` type, but we recommend that you use `VARCHAR(m)`.
