# Create a resource unit configuration

The resources available to a tenant are limited by the specified resource units. If the existing resource unit configurations cannot meet the needs of the new tenant, you can create a new resource unit configuration.

## Limitations

Only the `sys` tenant can create resource units.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to create a resource unit.

   Sample statement:

   ```sql
   CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unitname
   MAX_CPU [=] cpunum,
   [MIN_CPU [=] cpunum,]
   MEMORY_SIZE [=] memsize,
   [MAX_IOPS [=] iopsnum, MIN_IOPS [=] iopsnum,IOPS_WEIGHT [=]iopsweight,]
   [LOG_DISK_SIZE [=] logdisksize];
   ```

   Notes:

   * `MAX_CPU` and `MIN_CPU` specify the maximum and minimum CPU resources that can be provided by a resource unit that uses the resource unit configuration. The minimum CPU specification is 1C.

      `MAX_CPU` must be specified, while `MIN_CPU` is optional. If you do not specify `MIN_CPU`, the value equals that of `MAX_CPU` by default.

   * `MEMORY_SIZE` specifies the size of memory that can be provided by a resource unit that uses the resource unit configuration. The minimum value is `1G`.

   * The minimum values of `MAX_IOPS` and `MIN_IOPS` are both `1024`, and the value of `MAX_IOPS` must be greater than or equal to that of `MIN_IOPS`. If you do not specify these parameters, the system automatically calculates the values based on the CPU specifications.

      The system automatically calculates the values for the IOPS parameters based on the following rules:

   * If both `MIN_IOPS` and `MAX_IOPS` are not specified, the system automatically calculates their values based on the value of `MIN_CPU` by using this rule: One CPU core corresponds to 10,000 IOPS, which means `MAX_IOPS = MIN_IOPS = MIN_CPU * 10000`. In this case:

      * If `IOPS_WEIGHT` is not specified, `IOPS_WEIGHT = MIN_CPU`.

      * If `IOPS_WEIGHT` is specified, the specified value takes precedence.

   * If only `MAX_IOPS` is specified, `MIN_IOPS` uses the value of `MAX_IOPS`. Similarly, if only `MIN_IOPS` is specified, `MAX_IOPS` uses the value of `MIN_IOPS`. In this case:

      * If `IOPS_WEIGHT` is not specified, the value is `0` by default.

   * `LOG_DISK_SIZE` specifies the log disk size. If this parameter is not specified, the default value is three times the memory size. The minimum value is `2G`.

   * When you specify a value for a parameter, you can use a number without quotation marks ('), a number and a unit enclosed in quotation marks, or a number enclosed in quotation marks, for example, `'1T'`, `'1G'`, `'1M'`, or `'1K'`.

      Parameters:

   * For integer parameters such as `MAX_CPU`, `MIN_CPU`, `MAX_IOPS`, `MIN_IOPS`, and `IOPS_WEIGHT`, if the parameter value is a number and a letter enclosed in quotation marks, the letter is an abbreviation of thousand, million, and the like. For example, '1K' = 1000, and '1M' = 1000,000. For example, `MAX_IOPS='2K'` is equivalent to `MAX_IOPS=2000`.

      If you use a number enclosed in quotation marks, the meaning is the same as that without quotation marks. For example, '100' = 100, and '1000' = 1000.

   * For capacity parameters such as `MEMORY_SIZE` and `LOG_DISK_SIZE`, if you use a number and a unit enclosed in quotation marks, the unit is byte. For example, '1K' = 1024, and '1M' = 1024 * 1024.

      If you use a number enclosed in quotation marks, the unit is MB by default, For example, '100' = '100M' = 100 * 1024 * 1024.

   Create a resource unit named `unit1`.

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit1 MAX_CPU 1, MIN_CPU 1, MEMORY_SIZE '2G', MAX_IOPS 1024, MIN_IOPS 1024, IOPS_WEIGHT 0, LOG_DISK_SIZE '2G';

   obclient> CREATE RESOURCE UNIT unit1 MAX_CPU 1, MEMORY_SIZE '2G';
   ```

   A resource unit configuration is a template of resource units that can be used by different resource pools. For example, after you create the resource unit `unit1`, you can use the resource configuration of `unit1` to create resource pools `pool1` and `pool2`.

## What to do next

After a resource unit is created, the administrator can specify the resource unit when the administrator creates a resource pool and allocate it to the corresponding tenant. For more information about how to create a resource pool, see [Create a resource pool](4.create-a-resource-pool.md).

## More information

For more information about how to manage resource units, see the following topics:

* [View resource unit configurations](3.management-resource-unit/1.view-resource-unit-configuration.md)

* [Modify resource unit configurations](3.management-resource-unit/2.modify-the-configuration-of-a-resource-unit.md)

* [Drop a resource unit configuration](3.management-resource-unit/3.delete-a-resource-unit.md)
