| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |

# DATE data type

The DATE data type stores date and time information. This topic describes the syntax, parameters, and considerations of the DATE data type.

## Syntax

The default format of the `DATE` data type is determined by the `NLS_DATE_FORMAT` parameter. Execute the following SQL statement to view the default format:

```sql
SELECT @@NLS_DATE_FORMAT FROM DUAL;
```

The return result is as follows:

```sql
DD-MON-RR
```

You can use a conversion function to define a data format. When you want to insert data, you can use the TO_DATE (char,fmt) function to specify the data input format. When you want to query data, you can use the TO_CHAR(datetime,fmt) function to specify the data output format. These two conversion functions convert strings to the format specified by the `fmt` argument. If the `fmt` argument is not specified, the default format is used.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>The <code>DATE</code> data type can store time information such as hour, minute, and second. However, time information is not contained in the default format. </p>
  </main>

## Considerations

Although the date and time information can be represented by using character and number data types, the `DATE` data type has special associated properties. OceanBase Database stores the time information of year, month, day, hour, minute, and second in each `DATE` value without the time zone information. The value range is [`0001-01-01 00:00:00`,`9999-12-31 23:59:59`].
If you do not specify the `DATE` literal, OceanBase Database returns the default value:

* Year: the current year, which is returned by `SYSDATE`.

* Month: the current month, which is returned by `SYSDATE`.

* Day: 01. The default value is the first day of the current month.

* The value is 0 for hour, minute, and second.

## Examples

* Execute the following statement to obtain the system date. Because the `fmt` parameter is not specified, `TO_CHAR` returns data in the default format of the data type.

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT TO_CHAR(sysdate) FROM DUAL;
   +------------------+
   | TO_CHAR(SYSDATE) |
   +------------------+
   | 27-OCT-21        |
   +------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

* Execute the `TO_DATE(string, format)` statement to insert a date. `TO_DATE` converts the strings specified in `string` to the format defined in `format`.

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT TO_CHAR(TO_DATE('2020', 'YYYY'),'YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS') FROM DUAL;
   +--------------------------------------------------------+
   | TO_CHAR(TO_DATE('2020','YYYY'),'YYYY-MM-DDHH24:MI:SS') |
   +--------------------------------------------------------+
   | 2020-10-01 00:00:00                                    |
   +--------------------------------------------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```
