# TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE data type

The TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE data type is a variant of TIMESTAMP and is sensitive to time zone information. This topic describes the syntax, parameters, and considerations of the TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE data type.

## Syntax

```sql
TIMESTAMP [(scale)] WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE
```

## Parameters

The threshold and precision of `TIMESTAMP [(scale)]` depend on the value of the `scale` parameter. The value range is \[0,9\]. The maximum value 9 and minimum value 0 respectively specify that the value is accurate to nanoseconds and seconds. The default value 6 specifies that the value is accurate to microseconds.

## Considerations

The time zone information in the `TIMESTAMP [(scale)] WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` data type is the time zone in which the current session occurs. The value range is [`0001-01-01 00:00:00.000000000`,`9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999999`]. Compared with `TIMESTAMP [(scale)] WITH TIME ZONE`, this data type does not require you to specify the time zone information. OceanBase Database directly stores the timestamp in the default time zone +00:00. This time zone does not change. When you retrieve data, OceanBase Database returns the data in your local session time zone. This time zone can change.
This data type is useful for displaying date information in the time zone of the client system in a two-tier application. The default format of the `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` data type is determined by the `NLS_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT` parameter. Execute the following SQL statement to view the date format:

```sql
SELECT @@NLS_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT FROM DUAL;
```

The returned result is as follows:

```sql
DD-MON-RR HH.MI.SSXFF AM
```

You can use a conversion function to define a data format. You can use the TO_CHAR (datetime,fmt) function to specify the data output format. This conversion function converts strings to the format specified by the `fmt` argument. If the `fmt` argument is not specified, `TO_CHAR` returns data in the default format of the data type. For more information about the input format of the `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` data type, see [Timestamp literals](../../300.literal-of-oracle-mode/400.date-and-time-literal-of-oracle-mode/200.timestamp-literal-of-oracle-mode.md).

The value of the `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` data type is not specified based on any special literal. The time zone information of the local session is returned based on the `SESSIONTIMEZONE` parameter. The value of `SESSIONTIMEZONE` is specified based on the value of the customized parameter `TIME_ZONE`, as shown in the following example:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE LocalTZ ( ltzcol TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE);
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> INSERT INTO LocalTZ VALUES (TIMESTAMP '2020-02-25 11:10:08.123');
Query OK, 1 row affected

obclient> ALTER SESSION SET TIME_ZONE='+08:00';
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> SELECT SESSIONTIMEZONE, ltzcol FROM LocalTZ;
+-----------------+------------------------------+
| SESSIONTIMEZONE | LTZCOL                       |
+-----------------+------------------------------+
| +08:00          | 25-FEB-20 11.10.08.123000 AM |
+-----------------+------------------------------+
1 row in set
```

You can modify the value of `SESSIONTIMEZONE` by modifying the value of the custom parameter `TIME_ZONE`, as shown in the following example:

```sql
obclient> ALTER SESSION SET TIME_ZONE='+00:00';
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> SELECT SESSIONTIMEZONE, ltzcol FROM LocalTZ;
+-----------------+------------------------------+
| SESSIONTIMEZONE | LTZCOL                       |
+-----------------+------------------------------+
| +00:00          | 25-FEB-20 11.10.08.123000 AM |
+-----------------+------------------------------+
1 row in set
```
