ALTER FUNCTION
===================================

You can use the `ALTER FUNCTION` statement to recompile an independent function.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

Prerequisites
-------------------------

If the function is in the schema of the `SYS` user, you must connect to the database with the `SYSDBA` role. Otherwise, the function must be located in your own schema, or you must have the `ALTER ANY PROCEDURE` system privilege.

Syntax
-----------------------

The syntax of `ALTER FUNCTION` is as follows:

```sql
ALTER FUNCTION [ schema. ] function_name
{ function_compile_clause } ;
```



The syntax of `function_compile_clause` is as follows:

```sql
COMPILE [ DEBUG ] [ compiler_parameters_clause ... ] [ REUSE SETTINGS ]
```



Semantics
-----------------------



| Syntax | Keyword or syntax node | Description |
|-------------------------|---------------|------------------------------------|
| alter_function | schema | The name of the schema where the function is located. The default value is your schema.  |
| alter_function | function_name | The name of the function to be recompiled.  |
| function_compile_clause | - | Recompiles this function regardless of whether the function is valid.  |



Examples
-----------------------

The following example explicitly recompiles the `get_salary_by_dept` function of the `SYS` user:

```sql
ALTER FUNCTION sys.get_salary_by_dept COMPILE;

```



If the database does not encounter an error when it recompiles `get_salary_by_dept`, `get_salary_by_dept` becomes valid. The database can directly run this function later without the need to recompile it.

If the database encounters an error when it recompiles the `get_salary_by_dept` function, it returns an error and invalidates `get_salary_by_dept`. The database also invalidates all objects that depend on `get_salary_by_dept`. If these objects are referenced later without being explicitly recompiled, the database will implicitly recompile the objects during running.
