| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |


# ALTER PACKAGE

You can use the `ALTER PACKAGE` statement to explicitly recompile the specification and/or body of a program package.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

All objects in a package are stored as a unit. Therefore, the `ALTER PACKAGE` statement will recompile all the objects in the package. You cannot use the `ALTER PROCEDURE` or `ALTER FUNCTION` statement to independently recompile a stored procedure or function in a program package.

Prerequisites
-------------------------

If the program package is in the schema of the `SYS` user, you must connect to the database with the `SYSDBA` role. Otherwise, the program package must be located in your own schema, or you must have the `ALTER ANY PROCEDURE` system privilege.

Syntax
-----------------------

The syntax of `alter_package` is as follows:

```sql
ALTER PACKAGE [ schema. ] package_name
{ package_compile_clause} ;
```



The syntax of `package_compile_clause` is as follows:

```sql
COMPILE [ DEBUG ] [ compiler_parameters_clause ... ] [ REUSE SETTINGS ]
```



Semantics
-----------------------



| Syntax | Keyword or syntax node | Description |
|------------------------|--------------|-------------------------------------|
| alter_package | schema | The name of the schema where the program package is located. The default value is your schema.  |
| alter_package | package_name | The name of the program package to be recompiled.  |
| package_compile_clause | - | Recompiles the specification and/or body of the program package.  |



Examples
-----------------------

Explicitly recompile the specification and body of the `sys.obdemo_pack` package.

```sql
ALTER PACKAGE obdemo_pack COMPILE PACKAGE;


```



If the database does not encounter an error when it recompiles the specification and body of the `obdemo_pack` package, the `obdemo_pack` package becomes valid. Then, the `SYS` user can call or reference all objects declared in the specification of the `obdemo_pack` package, without the need to recompile them during running.

If the database encounters an error when recompiling the `obdemo_pack` package, the database returns an error and invalidates `obdemo_pack`. The database also invalidates all objects that depend on the `obdemo_pack` package. If these objects are referenced later without being explicitly recompiled, the database will implicitly recompile the objects during running.

The following example recompiles the package body in the schema of the `SYS` user:

```sql
ALTER PACKAGE sys.obdemo_pack COMPILE BODY;
```



If the database does not encounter an error when it recompiles the body of the `obdemo_pack` package, the package body becomes valid. Then, the `SYS` user can call or reference all objects declared in the specification of the `obdemo_pack` package, without the need to recompile them during running.

If the database encounters an error when it recompiles the package body, the database returns an error and the package body is still invalid.

This statement recompiles the body rather than the specification of the `obdemo_pack` package. Therefore, the database does not invalidate the dependent objects.
