ALTER PROCEDURE
====================================

You can use the `ALTER PROCEDURE` statement to explicitly recompile an independent stored procedure.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

To recompile a stored procedure that is part of a program package, use the `ALTER PACKAGE` statement.

Prerequisites
-------------------------

If the stored procedure to be recompiled is in the schema of the `SYS` user, you must connect to the database with the `SYSDBA` role. Otherwise, the stored procedure must be located in your own schema, or you must have the `ALTER ANY PROCEDURE` system privilege.

Syntax
-----------------------

The syntax of `alter_procedure` is as follows:

```sql
ALTER PROCEDURE [ schema. ] procedure_name
{ procedure_compile_clause} ;
```



The syntax of `procedure_compile_clause` is as follows:

```sql
COMPILE [ DEBUG ] [ compiler_parameters_clause ... ] [ REUSE SETTINGS ]
```



Semantics
-----------------------



| Syntax | Keyword or syntax node | Description |
|--------------------------|----------------|--------------------------------------|
| alter_procedure | schema | The name of the schema where the stored procedure is located. The default value is your schema.  |
|                          | procedure_name | The name of the stored procedure to be recompiled.  |
| procedure_compile_clause | - | Recompiles the stored procedure.  |



Examples
-----------------------

The following example explicitly recompiles the `userlogin` stored procedure of the `SYS` user:

```sql
ALTER PROCEDURE sys.userlogin COMPILE;

```



If the database does not encounter errors when it recompiles the `userlogin` stored procedure, `userlogin` becomes valid. The database can directly run this function later without the need to recompile it.

If the database encounters an error when it recompiles `userlogin`, it returns an error message and invalidates `userlogin`.

The database will also invalidate all objects that depend on the `userlogin` stored procedure, including any stored procedure, function, and package body that calls `userlogin`. If these objects are referenced later without being explicitly recompiled, the database will implicitly recompile the objects during running.
