| description ||
|---|---|
| keywords ||
| dir-name ||
| dir-name-en ||
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Dictionary views

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database provides a data dictionary where tables are protected. A dictionary view is used to access a data dictionary table. In MySQL mode, you can use `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` tables and `SHOW` statements to access the data stored in data dictionary tables.

## Composition

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database provides the following types of dictionary views: views prefixed with `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.`, views prefixed with `OCEANBASE.CDB/DBA`, and views prefixed with `MYSQL.`.

### Views prefixed with `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.`

`INFORMATION_SCHEMA` allows you to access the database metadata in a MySQL tenant. For example, you can obtain the name of a database or table, the data type of a column, or access privileges.  `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` is also called a data dictionary or a system catalog. `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` is a database or schema in a MySQL tenant and is used to store information about all other databases maintained by the MySQL tenant. The `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` database contains several read-only tables. These tables are actually views rather than base tables.

### Views prefixed with `MYSQL.`

Views prefixed with `MYSQL.` are system views that contain tables storing information required to run OceanBase Database in the MySQL mode. In most cases, views with the `mysql.` prefix include data dictionary tables that store the metadata of database objects and system tables for other operations. OceanBase Database is compatible with some `mysql`-prefixed views. For example, the `help_*` views contain server help information, the `time_zone*` views store timezone-related information, and the `USER` and `DB` views record information related to user privileges.

### Views prefixed with `OCEANBASE.CDB/DBA`

In OceanBase Database, you can use each view with the `DBA_` prefix to obtain the corresponding information of some database objects of the current tenant. You can use views with the CDB prefix under the sys tenant of the `oceanbase` database to obtain information about some database objects of all tenants in the current cluster.


## Storage

The metadata of different types of database objects of a tenant is persisted in the corresponding data dictionary table of the tenant. In principle, a tenant can only access its own data dictionary tables by using the corresponding dictionary views. However, the sys tenant can access the data dictionary tables of all tenants in the current cluster by using the corresponding dictionary views.