| description |  |
|---|---|
| keywords |  |
| dir-name |  |
| dir-name-en |  |
| tenant-type | MySQL Mode |

# Manage standard views

This topic describes how to create, modify, and drop views.
A view displays the result of a query. You can use views in most cases where you can use tables. If the data you frequently access is distributed across multiple tables, a view is the best choice.

## Create a standard view

You can execute the `CREATE VIEW` statement to create a standard view. After a view is created, you can execute DML statements on it. 

### Syntax

The syntax for creating a view in MySQL mode is as follows:

```sql
create_view_stmt:
  CREATE [OR REPLACE] VIEW view_name [(column_name_list)] AS select_stmt;
  [WITH [CASCADED | LOCAL] CHECK OPTION];
column_name_list:
    column_name [, column_name ...]
```

The fields are described as follows:

* `OR REPLACE`: If the name of the view to be created already exists, a new view is created based on the specified definition. 

* `select_stmt`: defines the `SELECT` statement of the view. You can obtain the information to be used in this statement from a base table or other views. 

* `column_name_list`: the unique column names used in the view. Each base table must also have unique column names. By default, the column names retrieved by the `SELECT` statement are used as the column names in the view. 

   You can also use the optional `column_name_list` clause to define column names for a view. Separate multiple column names with commas (,). The number of column names in `column_name_list` must be equal to the number of columns retrieved by the `SELECT` statement. 

   The `SELECT` statement can directly reference the columns of a table. You can also use functions, constants, and operators in the statement to retrieve columns. 

* The `WITH CHECK OPTION` clause prevents the system from inserting or updating rows except for the rows that meet the query condition defined by the `WHERE` clause in `select_statement`. When you create a view by using the `WITH CHECK OPTION` clause, you can add the `CASCADED` or `LOCAL` keyword to clarify the check scope. 

   * If the `LOCAL` keyword is used, the system checks the `WHERE` clause of a view, recurses the check to the base view, and then applies identical rules. 

   * If the `CASCADED` keyword is used, the system checks the `WHERE` clause of a view, recurses the check to underlying views, adds `WITH CASCADED CHECK OPTION` to these views without changing their definitions, and then applies identical rules. 

   * If neither the `CASCADED` nor the `LOCAL` keyword is used in `WITH CHECK OPTION`, the `CASCADED` keyword takes effect by default. 

   * If the `WITH CHECK OPTION` clause is not used when you create a view, the system does not check the `WHERE` clause of this view but recurses the check to underlying views and then applies identical rules. 

### Example

```sql
obclient> CREATE VIEW stock_item
     AS
     SELECT /*+ leading(s) use_merge(i) */
     i_price, i_name, i_data, s_i_id, s_w_id, s_order_cnt, s_ytd, s_remote_cnt, s_quantity, s_data, s_dist_01, s_dist_02, s_dist_03, s_dist_04, s_dist_05, s_dist_06, s_dist_07, s_dist_08, s_dist_09, s_dist_10
     FROM stok s, item i
     WHERE s.s_i_id = i.i_id;
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

## Modify a standard view

You can execute the `CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW` statement to modify a standard view. 

Modify the `stock_item` view. 

```sql
obclient> CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW stock_item
     AS
     SELECT /*+ leading(s) use_merge(i) */
     i_price, i_name, i_data, s_i_id, s_w_id, s_order_cnt, s_ytd, s_remote_cnt, s_quantity, s_data, s_dist_01, s_dist_02, s_dist_03, s_dist_04, s_dist_05, s_dist_06, s_dist_07, s_dist_08, s_dist_09, s_dist_10
     FROM stok s, item i
     WHERE s.s_i_id = i.i_id;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)
```

## Drop a view

You can execute the `DROP VIEW` statement to drop one or more views at a time. When a view is dropped, tables referenced by the view are not dropped. 

If you drop a view that is referenced by another view, queries on the view that references the dropped view will fail. 

Before you drop a view, make sure that you have the `DROP` privilege on the view. 

### Syntax

The syntax for dropping a view in MySQL mode is as follows:

```sql
drop_view_stmt:
    DROP VIEW [IF EXISTS] view_name_list;

view_name_list:
    view_name [, view_name_list]
```

where

* The `IF EXISTS` keyword prevents the error that occurs because the view to be dropped does not exist. 

* If `view_name_list` contains views that do not exist, an error may be reported during execution but the specified views that exist are dropped. 

### Example

Drop the `V1` view. 

```sql
obclient> DROP VIEW V1;
```

## References

* [CREATE VIEW](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2900.create-view-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [DROP VIEW](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/4100.drop-view-of-mysql-mode.md)
