# CALL

You can use the `CALL` statement to call a stored procedure that is previously defined by using the `CREATE PROCEDURE` statement.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CALL sp_name([parameter[,...]])
CALL sp_name[()]
```


Parentheses can be omitted when you call a stored procedure without parameters. For example, `CALL proc()` and `CALL proc` are equivalent.

The `CALL` statement can use the declared `OUT` or `INOUT` parameter to pass values to the invoker. You can also call the `ROW_COUNT()` function to obtain the number of rows affected after all statements in the routine are executed. For the C API, you can call the `mysql_affected_rows()` function.

You can pass the `OUT` or `INOUT` parameter as a user variable to obtain a value from a stored procedure and then check the variable value returned by the procedure. If a stored procedure has been called from another stored procedure or function, you can pass a routine parameter or local routine variable as an `IN` or `INOUT` parameter to pass a value. For the `INOUT` parameter, its value is initialized before it is passed to the procedure.

In the following example, the stored procedure contains an `OUT` parameter, which is set to the current server version, and an `INOUT` parameter, which is set to the current value of the procedure incremented by 2.

```sql
obclient> DELIMITER //

obclient> CREATE PROCEDURE proc (OUT ver_param VARCHAR(100), INOUT incr_param INT)
   BEGIN
     # Set the value of the OUT parameter.
     SELECT VERSION() INTO ver_param;
     # Increment the value of the INOUT parameter.
     SET incr_param = incr_param + 2;
   END //
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

Before you call a procedure, initialize the variables to be passed as `INOUT` parameters. After you call the procedure, the values of the two variables have been set or modified, as shown in the following example:

```sql
obclient> DELIMITER;

obclient> SET @increment = 1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> CALL proc(@obversion, @increment);
+------------------------------+------------+
| ver_param                    | incr_param |
+------------------------------+------------+
| 5.7.25-OceanBase_CE-v4.0.0.0 |          3 |
+------------------------------+------------+
1 row in set

obclient> SELECT @obversion, @increment;
+------------------------------+------------+
| @obversion                   | @increment |
+------------------------------+------------+
| 5.7.25-OceanBase_CE-v4.0.0.0 |          3 |
+------------------------------+------------+
1 row in set
```
