# Create a sequence

In OceanBase Database, a sequence is an auto-increment sequence number generated in the database based on some rules. It is usually a set of numeric values (of the numeric data type). A sequence auto-increments and therefore is often used as a primary or unique key.

You can use the `CREATE SEQUENCE` statement to create a sequence. A sequence provides two pseudo-columns: `CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL`, which return the current sequence value and the next sequence value respectively. Each reference to `NEXTVAL` will update the value of `CURRVAL`.

To execute this statement, you must have the `CREATE` privilege.

The SQL syntax is as follows:

```sql
CREATE SEQUENCE [IF NOT EXISTS] [database_name.]sequence_name
[MINVALUE int_value | NOMINVALUE]
[MAXVALUE int_value | NOMAXVALUE]
[START WITH int_value]
[INCREMENT BY int_value]
[CACHE int_value | NOCACHE]
[ORDER | NOORDER]
[CYCLE | NOCYCLE];
```

The parameters are described as follows:

* `IF NOT EXISTS`: If the sequence to be created already exists and `IF NOT EXISTS` is not specified, the system returns an error. This parameter is optional.

* `database_name.`: the database in which the sequence resides. This parameter is optional. If you do not specify `database_name`, the sequence is created in the current logon database by default.

* `MINVALUE int_value | NOMINVALUE`: the minimum value of the sequence. The value range is \[-10<sup>27</sup>, (10<sup>27</sup>-1)\].

   If `NOMINVALUE` is specified, the minimum value is 1 for an ascending sequence and -(10<sup>27</sup>-1) for a descending sequence.

   If `MINVALUE` is not specified, `NOMINVALUE` takes effect by default.

* `MAXVALUE int_value | NOMAXVALUE`: the maximum value of the sequence. The value range is \[(-10<sup>27</sup>+1), (10<sup>28</sup>-1)\].

   If `NOMAXVALUE` is specified, the maximum value is `(10`<sup>28</sup>`-1)` for an ascending sequence, and `-1` for a descending sequence.

   If `MAXVALUE` is not specified, `NOMAXVALUE` takes effect by default.

* `START WITH`: the start value of the sequence. The value must be less than or equal to `MAXVALUE`, and greater than or equal to `MINVALUE`. If no start value is specified, the start value is the minimum value for an ascending sequence and the maximum value for a descending sequence.

* `INCREMENT BY`: the auto-increment step of the sequence. The value cannot be `0`. If the value is positive, the sequence ascends. If the value is negative, the sequence descends. If this parameter is not specified, the default value `1` takes effect.

* `CACHE`: the number of sequence values that the database preallocates and keeps in memory. The default value is `20`.

* `ORDER | NOORDER`: specifies whether the values of the sequence are generated sequentially. `ORDER` indicates sequential generation, and `NOORDER` indicates non-sequential generation. The default value is `NOORDER`.

* `CYCLE | NOCYCLE`: specifies whether the values of the sequence are cyclically generated. `CYCLE` indicates a cycling sequence, and `NOCYCLE` indicates a non-cycling sequence. The default value is `NOCYCLE`.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<ul>
<li>When both <code>MINVALUE</code> and <code>MAXVALUE</code> are specified, <code>MINVALUE</code> must be less than <code>MAXVALUE</code>. </li>
<li>The difference between <code>MAXVALUE</code> and <code>MINVALUE</code> must be greater than or equal to <code>INCREMENT BY int_value</code>. </li>
<li>The value of <code>CACHE</code> must be greater than <code>1</code>. If the value of <code>CACHE INT_VALUE</code> is <code>1</code>, it is equivalent to <code>NOCACHE</code>. </li>
<li>If <code>CYCLE</code> is specified and the value of <code>INCREMENT BY</code> is less than <code>0</code>, <code>MINVALUE</code> must be specified. </li>
<li>If <code>CYCLE</code> is specified, the number of values in the cache must be less than the number of values in the cycle. </li>
</ul>
</main>

The following example creates the sequence `seq1` and specify the auto-increment step to `2`:

```sql
obclient> CREATE SEQUENCE seq1 START WITH 1 MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 10 INCREMENT BY 2 NOCYCLE NOORDER CACHE 30;
```

For more information about the `CREATE SEQUENCE` statement, see [CREATE SEQUENCE](../../../500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/2500.create-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md).

## References

For more information about operations on a sequence, see the following topics:

* [Query sequences](../700.manage-sequence-of-mysql-mode/200.view-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Reference a sequence](../700.manage-sequence-of-mysql-mode/300.use-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Modify a sequence](../700.manage-sequence-of-mysql-mode/400.modify-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Drop a sequence](../700.manage-sequence-of-mysql-mode/500.delete-a-squence-of-mysql-mode.md)
