|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Reference a sequence

After you create a sequence, you can reference it as needed.

To use a sequence, you must qualify `CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL` with the name of the sequence followed by a period (.).

For example, if the name of the sequence is `SEQ_FOO`, you can use `SEQ_FOO.CURRVAL` to query the current value of the `SEQ_FOO` sequence. Likewise, you can use `SEQ_FOO.NEXTVAL` to query the next value of the `SEQ_FOO` sequence.

`CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL` values of a sequence can be used in the following scenarios:

* The select list of a `SELECT` statement.

* The `VALUES` clause of an `INSERT` statement.

* The `SET` clause of an `UPDATE` statement.

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> SELECT SEQUENCE_NAME.NEXTVAL FROM DUAL;      /*The sequence number increases for each execution.*/

obclient> SELECT SEQUENCE_NAME.CURRVAL FROM DUAL;     /*The sequence number remains unchanged for each execution.*/
```

The first reference to `NEXTVAL` returns the initial value of the sequence. Subsequent references to `NEXTVAL` increment the sequence value by the defined step size and return a new value. Any reference to `CURRVAL` always returns the current value of the sequence, which is the value returned by the last reference to `NEXTVAL`.

Before you refer to `CURRVAL` of a sequence in the session, you must use `NEXTVAL` to initialize the sequence values first.

When you create a sequence, you can define its initial value and the step size between its values. The first reference to `NEXTVAL` returns the initial value of the sequence. Subsequent references to `NEXTVAL` increment the sequence value by the defined step size and return a new value. Any reference to `CURRVAL` always returns the current value of the sequence, which is the value returned by the last reference to `NEXTVAL`.

## References

For more information about operations on a sequence, see the following topics:

* [Create a sequence](../700.manage-sequence-of-mysql-mode/100.create-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Query sequences](../700.manage-sequence-of-mysql-mode/200.view-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Modify a sequence](../700.manage-sequence-of-mysql-mode/400.modify-a-sequence-of-mysql-mode.md)

* [Drop a sequence](../700.manage-sequence-of-mysql-mode/500.delete-a-squence-of-mysql-mode.md)
