# Load balancing

Load balancing is an important part of performance tuning. It encompasses load balancing among physical servers in a cluster and load balancing of business traffic in a cluster. A sound load balancing status ensures optimal performance by fully utilizing software and hardware resources. During a stress test, pay attention to the resource usage of each OBServer node in the cluster, including the CPU, I/O, and load. This topic describes load balancing in terms of cluster deployment and resource distribution.

## Cluster deployment

Collect locations, latency, and bandwidth information for cluster deployment.

### Location

Location information, such as the IDC and deployment methods, is essential to SQL route forwarding, transaction models, and performance. Location information includes the following parts:

* Deployment method: the way in which the OceanBase clusters are deployed, such as three IDCs in the same city, three IDCs across two regions, and five IDCs across three regions.

* Location of OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) and other middleware: on the client or on the same server as the OBServer node. Different deployment methods have some effect on performance.

* Location of application servers and other middleware.

Run the following SQL statement to check the IDC and region where each zone in the cluster is located:

```sql
MySQL [oceanbase]> select zone, name, info from __all_zone where name in ('region', 'idc') ;
+------+--------+------+
| zone | name   | info |
+------+--------+------+
| z1   | idc    |      |
| z1   | region | SZ   |
| z2   | idc    |      |
| z2   | region | SZ   |
| z3   | idc    |      |
| z3   | region | SZ   |
+------+--------+------+
6 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

### Latency

You can use the latency information to evaluate whether the response time of a single SQL statement meets your expectations. The latency information of a cluster includes:

* The latency between IDCs

* The latency between zones

* Latency between the ODP and an OBServer node

* The latency between a client and ODP

### Bandwidth

Check the bandwidths of the following components:

* NIC bandwidth on the server where ODP is deployed

* NIC bandwidth on the application server

* NIC bandwidth and disk I/O bandwidth on the OBServer node

You can use commands such as `ping`, `tsar`, `ethtool xxx`, and `ifconfig` to obtain the information. The following section uses FFF deployment with three replicas in three IDCs in the same city as an example.

## Resource distribution

Obtain information about tenant resource distribution for subsequent performance diagnostics.

### Basic information about a tenant

The information includes the primary zone and locality. You can run the following SQL statement to obtain the information:

```sql
MySQL [oceanbase]> select * from __all_tenant limit 1\G;
*************************** 1. row ***************************
                 gmt_create: 2021-08-25 20:38:18.699528
               gmt_modified: 2021-08-25 20:38:18.699528
                  tenant_id: 1
                tenant_name: sys
                  zone_list: z1;z2;z3
               primary_zone: z1;z2,z3
                     locked: 0
             collation_type: 0
                       info: system tenant
                   locality: FULL{1}@z1, FULL{1}@z2, FULL{1}@z3
          previous_locality:
      default_tablegroup_id: -1
         compatibility_mode: 0
           drop_tenant_time: -1
                     status: TENANT_STATUS_NORMAL
              in_recyclebin: 0
1 row in set
```

### Resource allocation information

Here is a sample SQL statement:

```sql
OceanBase(root@oceanbase)> select * from gv$ob_units limit 1\G;
*************************** 1. row ***************************
             SVR_IP: xx.xx.xx.xx
        SVR_PORT: 59802
         UNIT_ID: 1
       TENANT_ID: 1
            ZONE: zone1
         MAX_CPU: 1
         MIN_CPU: 1
     MEMORY_SIZE: 17179869184
        MAX_IOPS: 10000
        MIN_IOPS: 10000
     IOPS_WEIGHT: 1
   LOG_DISK_SIZE: 17179869184
 LOG_DISK_IN_USE: 81677640
DATA_DISK_IN_USE: 50331648
          STATUS: NORMAL
     CREATE_TIME: 2022-10-24 16:37:01.245584
1 row in set
```

### Total number of user partitions on a server and leader distribution

```sql
MySQL [oceanbase]> select svr_ip,count(1) from __all_virtual_ls_meta_table where tenant_id=1002 group by svr_ip;
+---------------+----------+
| svr_ip        | count(1) |
+---------------+----------+
| 10.10.10.1 |        1 |
| 10.10.10.2 |        1 |
| 10.10.10.3 |        1 |
+---------------+----------+
3 rows in set

MySQL [oceanbase]> select svr_ip,count(1) from __all_virtual_ls_meta_table where tenant_id=1001 and role=1 group by svr_ip;
+---------------+----------+
| svr_ip        | count(1) |
+---------------+----------+
| 10.10.10.1 |        5 |
+---------------+----------+
1 row in set
```

## Other variables

Throughout the process starting from the application server that initiates a request to the OBServer application server, any involved component deserves our attention. Any bottleneck on a component can affect the performance. Therefore, pay attention to:

* Physical resources. Check for resource bottlenecks on each component in the intermediate link, such as the JVM memory, CPU utilization of the application server and ODP, and software interrupts.

* Request routing. Check whether ODP can correctly route SQL requests and whether unauthorized forwarding occurs.

* Connection pool. Check the numbers of long and short connections and the `SocketTimeout` parameter.

* Traffic balancing. Check whether the number of SQL statements received and processed by each OBServer node is seriously unbalanced.
