# FLOAT data type

The FLOAT data type is a subtype of the NUMBER data type. It can be specified with or without precision, and its definition is the same as that for NUMBER. This topic describes the syntax, parameters, and considerations of the FLOAT data type.

## Syntax

```sql
FLOAT[(p)]
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Definition | Value range | Description |
|----|----|-----------|----------------------------------------|
| p | Precision | \[1,126\] | The precision, which is the number of significant binary digits. To convert from binary precision to decimal precision, multiply the precision by 0.30103.  |

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>Formula for conversion from binary precision to decimal precision: <code>Decimal precision = int(binary precision × 0.30103)</code>. </li>
    <li>Formula for conversion from decimal precision to binary precision: <code>Binary precision = int(decimal precision × 3.32193)</code>. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

## Considerations

`FLOAT` is a subtype of the `NUMBER` data type and has a precision. A floating-point value takes 4 to 40 bytes. The precision can range from 1 to 126 binary digits. The number of decimal digits cannot be customized. `FLOAT` is an inexact numeric data type that has a variable length.

## Examples

* Use `FLOAT` to set the binary precision to 2, convert it to decimal precision: `int(2 x 0.30103) = 0.6`, and round down the result. The decimal precision of `FLOAT(2)` is 0.

   ```sql
   FLOAT(2)
   ```

* Create a table named `test` and insert data into the table. The `col1` column is of the `NUMBER` type and the `col2` column is of the `FLOAT` type. `NUMBER(5,2)` means fixed-point numbers with decimal precision. The number of significant bits is 5 and the result is rounded to two places after the decimal point. `FLOAT(5)` means the binary precision of 5. You can convert it to decimal precision: `int(5 x 0.30103) = 1.50515`. The decimal precision is rounded down to 1. For example, the decimal number 123.45 is represented in decimal scientific notation as 1.2345 x 10^2^. If we round 1.2345 to one decimal place, we get 1.2. The final result displayed is 1.2 x 10^2^= 120. Execute the following statements:

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE test (col1 NUMBER(5,2), col2 FLOAT(5));
   INSERT INTO test VALUES (1.23, 1.23);
   INSERT INTO test VALUES (7.89, 7.89);
   INSERT INTO test VALUES (12.79, 12.79);
   INSERT INTO test VALUES (123.45, 123.45);
   ```

   Execute the `SELECT` statement to view the `test` table.

   ```sql
   obclient> SELECT * FROM test;
   +--------+------+
   | COL1   | COL2 |
   +--------+------+
   |   1.23 |  1.2 |
   |   7.89 |  7.9 |
   |  12.79 |   13 |
   | 123.45 |  120 |
   +--------+------+
   4 rows in set
   ```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>To convert the <code>ANSI FLOAT</code> data, you can use the <code>FLOAT</code> data type used internally in OceanBase Database. However, we recommend that you use the <code>BINARY_FLOAT</code> and <code>BINARY_DOUBLE</code> floating-point data types. </p>
  </main>

