# Floating-point numbers

A floating-point number can have zero or one decimal point after any digit. This topic describes the syntax, parameters, and considerations of floating-point numbers.

## Syntax

OceanBase Database provides two types of floating-point numbers for numeric data: `BINARY_FLOAT` and `BINARY_DOUBLE`.

* `BINARY_FLOAT` is a data type for 32-bit single-precision floating-point numbers. Each value of the `BINARY_FLOAT` type occupies four bytes.

* `BINARY_DOUBLE` is a data type for 64-bit double-precision floating-point numbers. Each value of the `BINARY_DOUBLE` type occupies eight bytes.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>In a <code>NUMBER</code> column, floating-point numbers have decimal precision. </li>
    <li>In a <code>BINARY_FLOAT</code> or <code>BINARY_DOUBLE</code> column, floating-point numbers have binary precision. </li>
    <li>Binary floating-point numbers do not support special values <code>infinity</code> and <code>NaN</code>. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

## Value range

You can specify a floating-point number based on its value range listed in the following table.

| Value | BINARY_FLOAT | BINARY_DOUBLE |
|------------------|---------------|----------------------|
| Maximum positive value | 3.40282E+38F | 1.79769313486231E+308 |
| Minimum positive value | 1.17549E-38F | 2.22507485850720E-308 |

## Considerations

You can use an exponent to increase the range of a floating-point number, such as 1.666 e-20. The decimal digits do not apply to floating-point numbers, because the number of digits that can appear on the right of the decimal point is not limited.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Unlike data of the NUMBER type, binary floating-point numbers are stored within OceanBase Database. NUMBER data is accurately stored in decimal precision. Binary floating-point numbers are stored in binary precision and therefore do not accurately represent values in decimal precision. </p>
  </main>

## IEEE 754 compliance

* IEEE 754-1985 (IEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic)
   OceanBase Database implements floating-point data types in basic compliance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic.
* The floating-point data types comply with IEEE 754 in the following aspects:
   * The SQL function SQRT returns the square root of a number.
   * The SQL function REMAINDER returns the remainder of a number.
   * Arithmetic operators are consistent.
   * Comparison operators meet the requirements.
   * Conversion operators meet the requirements.
   * The default rounding mode is supported.
   * The default exception handling mode is supported.
   * OceanBase Database does not support special constants such as INF, -INF, NaN, BINARY_FLOAT_NAN, and BINARY_DOUBLE_NAN.
   * SQL functions such as ROUND, TRUNC, CEIL, and FLOOR round binary floating-point numbers of the BINARY_FLOAT or BINARY_DOUBLE type to integers of the BINARY_ FLOAT or BINARY_DOUBLE type.
   * SQL functions such as TO_CHAR, TO_NUMBER, TO_ NCHAR, TO_BINARY_FLOAT, TO_BINARY_DOUBLE, and CAST round binary floating-point numbers of the BINARY_FLOAT or BINARY_DOUBLE type and decimal numbers to decimal numbers of the BINARY_FLOAT or BINARY_DOUBLE type.

* OceanBase Database does not comply with IEEE 754 for floating-point data types in the following aspects:
   * -0 is forced to be +0.
   * Comparison against NaN is not supported.
   * The nondefault rounding mode is not supported.
   * The nondefault exception handling mode is not supported.
