# Privilege delegation

Privilege delegation solves the problem due to the centralization of privileges to a limited number of authorizers. When you grant a privilege to a user by using a `WITH ADMIN OPTION` or `WITH GRANT OPTION` clause in the `GRANT` statement, you allow the user to grant the same privilege to other users. The revocation of object privileges extends to dependent users. For example, when you revoke an object privilege from User A who has delegated the object privilege to User B, the object privilege is also revoked from User B. The revocation of system privileges does not extend to dependent users. 

## Examples

* Failure of privilege delegation

   1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of a cluster as the root user. 

   2. Create a user A and grant privileges without using the `WITH GRANT OPTION` clause. 

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO A IDENTIFIED BY '******';
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.034 sec)
      ```

   3. Log on to the cluster as user A, create user B, and grant user B the same privileges as user A. An error is returned. 

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'B' IDENTIFIED BY '******';
      ERROR 1227 (42501): Access denied; you need (at least one of) the GRANT privilege(s) for this operation
      ```

      <main id="notice" type='alert'>
         <h4>Notice:</h4>
         <p>If you grant a privilege to a user without using the <Code>WITH GRANT OPTION</Code> clause, the user cannot grant the same privilege to other users.</p>
      </main>

* Successful privilege delegation
   1. Log on to a MySQL tenant of a cluster as the root user. 

   2. Grant privileges to user A using the `WITH GRANT OPTION` clause. Sample statement: 

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO A with grant option;
      ```

   3. Log on to the cluster as user A, create user B, and grant user B the same privileges as user A. A success message is returned. 

      ```shell
      obclient> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'B' IDENTIFIED BY '******';
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.058 sec)
      ```
