# OceanBase Database V3.2.4

## Version information

- Release date: November 1, 2022
- Version: V3.2.4

## Overview

Compared with V3.2.3, OceanBase Database V3.2.4 improves the compatibility and stability of the database kernel to meet the production and testing requirements of customer systems. Core enhancements:

- **Enhanced compatibility with MySQL**

   The geographic information system (GIS) and MySQL binlog parsing are supported. The DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER system package is added.

- **Enhanced compatibility with Oracle**

   The DBMS_SCHEDULER system package is added. System package functions are supplemented.

- **Kernel enhancements**

   SQL rule-based resource isolation, the IPv6 protocol, backup to OBS, log optimization, transaction size configuration, and configuration of the number of logon threads are supported.

## New features

### Enhanced compatibility

#### Compatibility with MySQL

* Support for GIS

   GIS provides the storage, computing, and indexing capabilities for spatial objects such as points, lines, planes, and complex spatial objects. GIS is widely applied in the transportation industry and can help quickly build spatial computing capabilities. GIS is supported since OceanBase Database V3.2.4. GIS in OceanBase Database adopts the quadtree-based indexing solution and supports the GIS data types of MySQL 8.0, the management and caching of spatial reference system (SRS) metadata, quadtree-based spatial indexes, single-value types (GEOMETRY, POINT, LINESTRING, and POLYGON), and multi-value types (MULTIPOINT, MULTILINESTRING, MULTIPOLYGON, and GEOMETRYCOLLECTION). The spatial computing functions commonly used in MySQL 8.0 are also implemented. For more information, see [Functions for spatial computing](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-database-en-10000000000850664).

- Support for MySQL binlog parsing

   The OceanBase CDC data synchronization solution supports MySQL binlogs and allows popular applications, such as Canal, Debezium, and Flink CDC, to generate and parse binlogs in OceanBase Database. The OBServer must support binlog-related system variables such as binlog_format, binlog_row_image, log_bin, and server_uuid. The REPLICATION SLAVE and REPLICATION CLIENT privileges can be set. OceanBase CDC parses clogs in OceanBase Database into binlogs for subscription and consumption by downstream products. For more information, see [binlog_row_image](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-database-en-10000000000848300).

- Addition of the DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER system package

   The DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER system package is added for creating and maintaining resource consumer groups, resource management plans, and binding rules of resource consumer groups. More functions are supported, such as CREATE_CONSUMER_GROUP, CREATE_PLAN, and SET_CONSUMER_GROUP_MAPPING.

#### Compatibility with Oracle

- Addition of the DBMS_SCHEDULER system package

   The DBMS_SCHEDULER system package is added for managing scheduled tasks. More functions are supported, such as CREATE_JOB, CREATE_PROGRAM, and DEFINE_PROGRAM_ARGUMENT.

- Supplementation of system package functions

   * The DBMS_SESSION.SET_CONTEXT function is supplemented for setting or resetting the value of the context attribute.
   * The DBMS_SESSION.CLEAR_CONTEXT function is supplemented for clearing the specified context.
   * The UTL_RAW.CAST_TO_BINARY_INTEGER function is supplemented for converting the RAW binary representation of a BINARY_INTEGER value into a BINARY_INTEGER value.

### Kernel enhancements

- Support for SQL rule-based resource isolation

   In real practice, more fine-grained control of resource isolation is required for business. For example, different SQL statements are executed by using different resource specifications for isolation. This helps allocate and isolate resources for business systems such as OLAP and OLTP, and reduces the mutual impact between business systems.

   OceanBase Database V3.2.4 supports creating resource groups and binding users to resource groups. When a user executes a business SQL statement, OceanBase Database allocates the corresponding resource group based on the predefined SQL rules to help the user define a business resource isolation plan. At present, the resource isolation plan applies only to CPU resources. For more information, see [Multi-tenant resource isolation](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-database-en-10000000000848891).

- Support for the IPv6 protocol

   IPv6 is widely applied in customer projects as it gains popularity among communications network suppliers and terminal vendors. OceanBase Database V3.2.4 and related components, such as ODP and JDBC, support IPv6. OceanBase clusters support both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP/IP connections. Before you use IPv6, make sure that the operating system of your server is configured to support IPv6. For more information, see [IS_IPV6](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-database-en-10000000000850633).

- Support for backup to OBS

   Backup and restore is a core feature for ensuring the high availability of OceanBase Database. OceanBase Database supports three backup media: Alibaba Cloud Network File System (NFS), Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS), and Tencent Cloud Object Storage (COS). OceanBase Database supports backup to HUAWEI CLOUD Object Storage Service (OBS) since V3.2.4. You can specify the backup destination (backup_dest) to back up data and log files to OBS.   For more information, see [Preparations for backup](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-database-en-10000000000851187).

* Log optimization
   OceanBase Database V3.2.4 optimizes log output in the following aspects:

   * Log level definition: The DIAG log level is added. WARN and ERROR logs that do not need to be perceived by users are classified into DIAG logs. The levels are adjusted for O&M-oriented WARN and ERROR logs that need to be retained.

      | Log level | Intended audience | Definition | Original log level |
      | --- | --- | --- | --- |
      | ERROR | DBA or users | The OBServer cannot provide normal services. For example, the disk is full or the listening port is occupied. An ERROR log may also be generated when an error is returned during an internal check in the background. For example, 4377 indicates a DML defensive check error, and 4103 indicates a data checksum error. In this case, manual intervention is required. |  |
      | WARN | DBA or users | An unexpected scenario occurs. The OBServer can provide services, but the behavior is not as expected. Example: a write throttling warning. |  |
      | INFO | DBA or users | System status changes. | INFO |
      | EDIAG | R&D | Error diagnosis information for troubleshooting. This log level indicates an unexpected logical error. For example, function parameters are not as expected. | ERROR |
      | WDIAG | R&D | Warning diagnosis information for troubleshooting. This log level indicates an expected error. For example, a function fails to return a value. | WARN |
      | TRACE | R&D | Task-level diagnosis information. | TRACE |
      | DEBUG | R&D | Debugging details. | DEBUG |

   - Error code association: Error messages are classified and error codes are improved. A response error code is defined for each warning and error. You can retrieve documents based on an error code to find the solution.

   - Throttling by error code: WDIAG logs are throttled by error code. For throttled logs, only the error code and the number of throttled logs are displayed. The `diag_syslog_per_error_limit` parameter is added for controlling this throttling feature. By default, 200 DIAG logs per second are allowed for each error.

   - Monitoring log removal: The `dump tenant info`, `memory info`, and `easy stat` log entries are removed from log files for separate management.

   - Log file self-description: The server address, host type, CPU type, operating system version, OBServer version, and time zone are recorded in the header of each log file.
* Other feature enhancements

   * You can configure the transaction size by using the `_max_trx_size` parameter.
   * You can configure the number of logon threads by using the `sql_login_thread_count` parameter.
   * You can set table-level parallel hints. Example: `select /*+ parallel(t1, 8) */ from t1;`.

## Compatibility changes

### Parameters

| Parameter | Change type | Default value | New default value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| enable_cgroup | New features |
| True | Specifies whether to enable the control group feature.  |
| sql_login_thread_count | New features |
| 0 | The number of threads for processing logon requests. The default value is 0, which indicates that the number of threads is dynamically adjusted.  |
| ob_query_switch_leader_retry_timeout | New features |
| 0us | The longest retry time for a failed query. The default value is 0us, which indicates that the retry timeout check is disabled.  |
| diag_syslog_per_error_limit | New features |
| 200 | The number of diagnostic logs for each error code per second. |
| ob_esi_syslog_level | Modification | INFO | WDIAG | The log level of independent subprocesses. |
| syslog_level | Modification | INFO | WDIAG | The level of system logs. |

### System changes

| Parameter | Change type | Recommended value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| binlog_format | New features | ROW | The supported binlog format. This parameter takes effect when log_bin is set to ON. |
| binlog_checksum | New features | CRC32 | The supported binlog checksum. |
| binlog_rows_query_log_events | New features | OFF | Specifies whether to write row query log events into the binlog. This parameter applies to the row-based logging. |
| log_bin | New features | ON | The supported binlog enabling status. |
| server_uuid | New features | Generated upon tenant creation | The instance UUID. |

### Behavior changes

* Differences between the new system log levels used in OceanBase Database V3.2.4 and the log levels in earlier versions:
   * The log levels are ERROR, WARN, INFO, EDIAG, WDIAG, TRACE, and DEBUG in descending order of priority.

   * The WARN log level in earlier versions changes to the WDIAG level in V3.2.4. Therefore, WARN logs in earlier versions are generated as ERROR logs in V3.2.4.

## Upgrade path

* An upgrade from V3.2.1, V3.2.2, or V3.2.3 to V3.2.4 is supported. However, an upgrade from V3.2.3 BP6 and later to V3.2.4 is not supported.

* An upgrade from V3.1.2 to V3.2.4 is supported. You must download the software packages V3.2.0, V3.2.1, V3.2.2, and V3.2.3, and upload them to OCP.
* An upgrade from V2.2.77 is supported. You must upgrade OceanBase Database to V3.1.2 first and then to V3.2.4.

## Supported components

The following table describes the recommended versions of components used with OceanBase Database V3.2.4.

| Component | Version |
| --- | --- |
| ODP | V3.2.8 |
| OCP | V3.3.4 |
| ODC | V4.0.0 |
| OMS | V3.4.0 |
| OBCI | V2.0.2 |
| ECOB | V1.1.6 |
| JDBC | V2.2.11 |
| OBClient | V2.1.1.3 |

## Considerations

* The `open_cursors` parameter specifies the maximum number of open cursors that a session can have at once. The default value is 50. OceanBase Database V3.2.4 changes the maximum number of prepared statements for a single session. Therefore, if you upgrade your database to V3.2.4, you must determine whether to increase the value of `open_cursors` to avoid errors when prepared statements are executed.
