|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# Use the SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE statement to lock query results

This topic provides specific examples on how to use the `SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE` statement to lock query results.

You can use the `SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE` statement to obtain a shared lock when you query data. This prevents other transactions from writing data but allows other transactions to read data. This statement sets a shared lock on the read data rows. Other sessions can read these rows but cannot modify them until the current transaction is committed.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>OceanBase Database simulates the feature of the <code>LOCK IN SHARE MODE</code> syntax using write locks. This can meet the compatibility requirements of some software while ensuring the correctness of the syntax. Write locks can cause blocking between read operations that use the <code>LOCK IN SHARE MODE</code> syntax. Therefore, we recommend that you do not use this syntax, especially in performance-sensitive scenarios. </p>
</main>

## Examples

1. In **Session 1**, execute the following SQL statement to start a transaction:

   ```sql
   START TRANSACTION;
   ```

2. In **Session 1**, use the `LOCK IN SHARE MODE` syntax to query records where `id` is `1` in the `test_tbl1` table and obtain a shared lock.

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM test_tbl1 WHERE id = 1 LOCK IN SHARE MODE;
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +------+------+
   | id   | name |
   +------+------+
   |    1 | A1   |
   +------+------+
   1 row in set
   ```

3. In **Session 2**, execute the following SQL statement to start a transaction:

   ```sql
   START TRANSACTION;
   ```

4. In **Session 2**, execute the following SQL statement to query the row where `id` is `1` in the `test_tbl1` table:

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM test_tbl1 WHERE id = 1;
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +------+------+
   | id   | name |
   +------+------+
   |    1 | A1   |
   +------+------+
   1 row in set
   ```

5. In **Session 2**, execute the following SQL statement to change the value of `name` to `A1A1A1` for the row in the `test_tbl1` table where `id` is `1`. The SQL statement waits until the transaction of **Session 1** is rolled back or committed.
   
   ```sql
   UPDATE test_tbl1 SET name = 'A1A1A1' WHERE id = 1;
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   ERROR 1205 (HY000): Lock wait timeout exceeded; try restarting transaction
   ```

6. In **Session 1**, execute the following SQL statement to commit the transaction:

   ```sql
   COMMIT;
   ```

7. In **Session 2**, execute the `UPDATE` statement in **Step 4** again.

   ```sql
   UPDATE test_tbl1 SET name = 'A1A1A1' WHERE id = 1;
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   Query OK, 1 row affected
   Rows matched: 1  Changed: 1  Warnings: 0
   ```

## References

[SELECT](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/600.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/8100.select-of-mysql-mode/100.select-of-mysql-mode.md)
