# Overview

This topic describes the methods for connecting to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode, including a MySQL client, OceanBase Client (OBClient), and OceanBase Developer Center (ODC).

## MySQL client

A MySQL client is a MySQL CLI tool that must be separately installed. OceanBase Database tenants are divided into MySQL tenants. You can use a MySQL client to access a MySQL tenant.

After you connect to OceanBase Database, you can run MySQL O&M commands and execute SQL statements in the CLI of a MySQL client for the following purposes:

* Computing, storing, and generating query results

* Creating database objects and checking and modifying object definitions

* Managing databases and modifying parameters

## OBClient

OBClient is an interactive query tool that supports batch processing. It must be separately installed. OBClient provides a CLI and acts as the client when it is connected to OceanBase Database. It supports MySQL tenants in OceanBase Database.

Before you use OBClient to connect to an OceanBase Database tenant, you must specify the connection information of the tenant. After you connect to OceanBase Database, you can use OBClient to run some database commands (including general MySQL commands) and execute some SQL and PL/SQL statements for the following purposes:

* Computing, storing, and generating query results

* Creating database objects and checking and modifying object definitions

* Developing and running batch-processing scripts

* Managing databases and modifying parameters

## ODC

ODC is an enterprise-level database development platform tailored for OceanBase Database.

ODC is compatible with both MySQL in OceanBase Database. It provides database developers with various features, such as daily development, WebSQL-based workspace, SQL diagnostics, session management, and data import and export.
