# Connect Java applications to OceanBase Database

This topic describes how to connect Java applications to OceanBase Database. 

## Prerequisites

* A basic database development environment is deployed. 

* You have installed or upgraded to JDK 8 on your computer. 

* You have obtained the installation package of the OceanBase Connector/J driver from OceanBase Technical Support. 

## Procedure

Place the JAR installation package of OceanBase Connector/J in the local directory by using `cmd` and perform the following connection test:

1. Compile the Java file `HelloWorld.java` and load OceanBase Connector/J. 

   ```java
   public class HelloWorld {
      public static void main(String[] args) {
          try {
              Class.forName("com.oceanbase.jdbc.Driver");
          } catch (ClassNotFoundException e) {
              e.printStackTrace();
          }
      }
   }
   ```

2. Run the following command to compile the Java sample file:

   ```java
   javac -cp target/oceanbase-client-{version}.jar HelloWorld.java
   ```

   > **Note**
   >
   > You can change the compilation path as needed. 

3. Run the following command to run the Java sample file:

   ```java
   java -cp .:target/oceanbase-client-{version}.jar HelloWorld
   ```

   If steps 2 and 3 are completed with no error message returned, the JAR package of OceanBase Connector/J is correctly loaded. 
   > Note
   >
   > If you deploy the application in an instance on Apsara Stack or a self-managed environment, you must specify the `username` field in the following format: `String username` = "username@tenant name#cluster name";

4. Connect to OceanBase Database. 

   After OceanBase Connector/J is loaded, connect to OceanBase Database based on the IP address and port number. Enter the actual IP address, port number, and schema name in the `String url` field in the following code: 

   ```java
   import java.sql.Connection;
   import java.sql.DriverManager;
   import java.sql.SQLException;
   public class HelloWorld {
      public static void main(String[] args) {
          try {
              String url = "jdbc:oceanbase://ipaddress:port/shemaname?pool=false";
              String  user = "username";
              String  password = "password";
              Class.forName("com.oceanbase.jdbc.Driver");
              Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(url, user, password);
          } catch (ClassNotFoundException e) {
              e.printStackTrace();
          }
      }
   ```

   After the connection to OceanBase Database is established, repeat steps 2 and 3 to load classes. 

> **Note**
>
> If you deploy the application in an instance on Apsara Stack or a self-managed environment, you must specify the `username` field in the following format: `String username` = "username@tenant name#cluster name";

For more information about how to use OceanBase Connector/J, see [OceanBase Connector/J Developer Guide](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise/oceanbase-connector-j-cn). 
