Delete a user 
==================================

This topic describes how to delete a user of OceanBase Database. 

Delete a MySQL tenant user by using SQL statements 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

* MySQL mode

  The following statement drops user `sqluser02` in MySQL mode:

  ```sql
  obclient>DROP USER sqluser02;
  Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)
  ```

  

  For more information about the `DROP USER` statement in MySQL mode, see [DROP USER](/en-US/11.sql-reference-en/5.sql-statements/32.drop-user.md). 

  For more information about the `DROP USER` statement in MySQL mode, see [DROP USER](https://open.oceanbase.com/docs/community/oceanbase-database/V3.1.1/drop-user-1).
  




Delete a user in MySQL mode on OCP 
-------------------------------------------------------

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) V2.5.0 and later allow you to delete users in MySQL mode. 

**Prerequisites** 

Before you delete a user, make sure that:

* The current OCP user has the permission to modify a tenant. For more information about privileges of OCP users, see the OCP User Guide of the corresponding version.

  

* The password box of the current OCP user contains the root password of the tenant. For more information about the password box of an OCP user, see OCP User Guide of the corresponding version.

  




**Procedure** 

1. Log on to the OCP console.

   

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Tenants** to go to the Tenant Overview page.

   

3. In the tenant list, select a tenant whose **Tenant Mode** is **MySQL** and click the name of the tenant to go to the **Overview** page.

   

4. In the left-side navigation pane, click **User Management** .

   

5. In the user list, click **Delete** in the **Actions** column of the user that you want to delete.

   

6. In the confirmation dialog box that appears, click **Delete** .

   



