# Create a user

This topic describes how to create a user.

## Privilege to create a user

You may need to create users and grant them privileges in OceanBase Database as needed. To create a user, you must have the `CREATE USER` privilege.

By default, only cluster and tenant administrators have the `CREATE USER` privilege. Other users can create a user only after they are granted the `CREATE USER` privilege. For more information, see [Modify user privileges](../../../../../../6.manage/5.security-and-permissions/3.access-control/2.user-and-permission/2.permission-of-mysql-mode/5.modify-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Naming rules for usernames

When you specify a name for a user, take note of the following items:

* The username must be unique in a tenant.

   Users in the same tenant must have unique names. However, users in different tenants can have the same name. You can globally and uniquely identify a tenant user by specifying the username in the `username@tenant name` format.

   The sys tenant uses the MySQL mode. To distinguish users in the sys tenant from those in a user tenant in MySQL mode, we recommend that you use a specific prefix for the name of a sys tenant user.

* Naming rules:

   * When you create a user by using an OBClient or OceanBase Developer Center (ODC), the username cannot exceed 64 bytes in length.

   * When you create a user in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console, the username must be 2 to 64 characters in length and start with a letter, and can contain letters, digits, and underscores (_).

## Create a user with the minimum database privileges by using an SQL statement

You can use the `CREATE USER` statement to create a user. To create a user, you must have the `CREATE USER` privilege. When you create a user, we recommend that you grant the user the minimum database privileges.

Execute the following statement to create a user:

```sql
CREATE USER [IF NOT EXISTS] user_specification_list
    [REQUIRE {NONE | SSL | X509 | tls_option}];

user_specification_list:
    user_specification [, user_specification ...]

user_specification:
    user IDENTIFIED BY  'authstring'
  | user IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'hashstring'

tls_option:
 | CIPHER 'cipher'
 | ISSUER 'issuer'
 | SUBJECT 'subject'
```

Notes:

* `IF NOT EXISTS`: If the username already exists and you do not specify the `IF NOT EXISTS` clause, an error is reported.

* `IDENTIFIED BY`: You can use the `IDENTIFIED BY` clause to specify a password for the user.

   Parameters:

   * The password in the `user IDENTIFIED BY 'authstring'` clause is in plaintext. However, after the password is saved to the `mysql.user` table, the server stores the password in ciphertext.

   * The password in the `user IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'authstring'` clause is in ciphertext.

* `REQUIRE`: specifies an encryption protocol for the user. Valid values: `NONE`, `SSL`, `X509`, and `tls_option`.

The following example shows how to create the `test2` user that has the minimum database privileges:

1. Log on to a MySQL tenant as the `root` user.

2. Execute the following statement to create a user named `test2`:

   ```sql
   obclient> CREATE USER 'test2' IDENTIFIED BY '******';
   ```

3. Execute the following statement to grant the `test2` user the privilege to access all tables in the `db1` database.

   ```sql
   obclient> GRANT SELECT ON db1.* TO test2;
   ```

