# Modify user privileges

You can grant and revoke user privileges.

## Grant privileges

You can use the `GRANT` statement to grant user-level, database-level, or object privileges to a user.

### Prerequisites

You must have the GRANT OPTION privilege and the privileges to be granted. For example, if the `test1` user wants to grant the `SELECT` privilege on the `t1` table to the `test2` user, the `test1` user must have the `GRANT OPTION` privilege and the `SELECT` privilege on the `t1` table.

For information about how to view your privileges, see [View user privileges](../3.mysql-mode/4.view-user-permissions-of-mysql-mode.md).

### Considerations

Before you grant a privilege, take note of the following items:

* When you grant a privilege to a user, the user is automatically created if the user does not exist. If `sql_mode='no_auto_create_user'` is specified and `IDENTIFIED BY` is not used to specify a password, the system cannot create a user.

* When you grant multiple privileges to a user at a time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* When you grant a privilege to multiple users at a time, separate the usernames with commas (,).

* After a user is granted a privilege, the privilege takes effect only after the user is reconnected to OceanBase Database.

* OceanBase Database does not support the `CHANGE EFFECTIVE TENANT` statement for privilege control. Therefore, you can grant a privilege to all users in the `sys` tenant.

### Syntax for granting privileges

Syntax:

```sql
GRANT priv_type
    ON priv_level
    TO user_specification [, user_specification]...
     [WITH GRANT OPTION];

privilege_type:
      ALTER
    | CREATE
    | CREATE USER
    | CREATE VIEW
    | DELETE
    | DROP
    | GRANT OPTION
    | INDEX
    | INSERT
    | PROCESS
    | SELECT
    | SHOW DATABASES
    | SHOW VIEW
    | SUPER
    | UPDATE
    | USAGE
    | CREATE SYNONYM

priv_level:
      *
    | *.*
    | database_name.*
    | database_name.table_name
    | table_name
    | database_name.routine_name

user_specification:
user_name [IDENTIFIED BY [PASSWORD] 'password']
```

Notes:

* `priv_type`: the type of the privilege to be granted. When you grant multiple privileges to a user at a time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* `priv_level`: the level of the privilege to be granted. In MySQL mode, OceanBase Database provides privileges of the following levels:

   * User level: Privileges at this level apply to all databases. You can use `GRANT ... ON *.*` to grant user-level privileges.

   * Database level: Privileges at this level apply to all objects in a specified database. You can use `GRANT ... ON db_name.*` to grant database-level privileges.

   * Table level: Privileges at this level apply to all columns in a specified table. You can use `GRANT ... ON database_name.table_name` to grant table-level privileges.

* `user_specification`: the user to which one or more privileges are granted. If the user does not exist, the user is automatically created.

   When you grant a privilege to multiple users at a time, separate the usernames with commas (,).

* `user_name IDENTIFIED BY 'password'` and `user_name IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'password'`: The password in the `user_name IDENTIFIED BY 'password'` clause is in plaintext. The password in the `user_name IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'password'` clause is in ciphertext.

* `WITH GRANT OPTION`: specifies whether the privileges can be delegated or revoked.

### Examples

* Grant user-level privileges

   User-level privileges are global privileges that apply to all databases. You can use `GRANT ... ON *.*` to grant user-level privileges.

   * To grant all privileges on all objects in all databases to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> GRANT ALL ON *.* TO test;
      ```

   * To grant the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on all tables in all databases to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON *.* TO test;
      ```

* Grant database-level privileges

   Database-level privileges are management privileges on all objects in a specified database. You can use `GRANT ... ON db_name.*` to grant database-level privileges.

   * To grant management privileges on all objects in the `db1` database to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> GRANT ALL ON db1.* TO test;
      ```

   * To grant the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on all tables in the `db1` database to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON db1.* TO test;
      ```

* Grant table-level privileges

   Table-level privileges are management privileges on a specified table in a specified database. You can use `GRANT ... ON db_name.tb1_name` to grant table-level privileges.

   * To grant the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on the `tb1_name` table in the `db1` database to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON db1.tb1_name TO test;
      ```

   * To grant management privileges on the `tb1_name` table in the `db1` database to the `test` user, execute the following statement:

      ```sql
      obclient> GRANT ALL ON db1.tb1_name TO test;
      ```

For more information about the `GRANT` statement, see [GRANT](../../../../../4.development-reference/1.sql-syntax/2.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/6.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/55.grant-of-mysql-mode.md).

## Revoke privileges

### Prerequisites

* You must have the privileges to be revoked and the `GRANT OPTION` privilege. For example, if the `test1` user wants to revoke the `SELECT` privilege on the `t1` table from the `test2` user, the `test1` user must have the `SELECT` privilege on the `t1` table.

* To revoke the `ALL PRIVILEGES` and `GRANT OPTION` privileges, you must have the global `GRANT OPTION` privilege or the `UPDATE` and `DELETE` privileges on the table.

### Considerations

* When you revoke multiple privileges from a user at a time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* When you revoke a privilege from multiple users at a time, separate the usernames with commas (,).

* The revocation does not extend to dependent users. For example, if the `test1` user has granted some privileges to the `test2` user, when the privileges of the `test1` user are revoked, the privileges granted to the `test2` user will not be revoked.

### Syntax for revoking privileges

Syntax:

```sql
REVOKE priv_type
     ON priv_level
     FROM 'user_name';

priv_type:
      ALTER
    | CREATE
    | CREATE USER
    | CREATE VIEW
    | DELETE
    | DROP
    | GRANT OPTION
    | INDEX
    | INSERT
    | PROCESS
    | SELECT
    | SHOW DATABASES
    | SHOW VIEW
    | SUPER
    | UPDATE
    | USAGE

priv_level:
      *
    | *.*
    | database_name.*
    | database_name.table_name
    | table_name
    | database_name.routine_name
```

Notes:

* `priv_type`: the type of the privilege to be revoked. When you revoke multiple privileges from a user at a time, separate the privileges with commas (,).

* `priv_level`: the level of the privilege to be revoked. OceanBase Database provides privileges of the following levels:

   * User level: Privileges at this level apply to all databases. You can use `REVOKE ... ON *.*` to revoke user-level privileges.

   * Database level: Privileges at this level apply to all objects in a specified database. You can use `REVOKE ... ON db_name.*` to revoke database-level privileges.

   * Table level: Privileges at this level apply to all columns in a specified table. You can use `REVOKE ... ON database_name.table_name` to revoke table-level privileges.

* `user_name`: the user whose privileges are to be revoked. When you revoke one or more privileges from multiple users at a time, separate the usernames with commas (,).

### Examples

* Revoke user-level privileges

   To revoke the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on all tables in all databases from the `test` user, execute the following statement:

   ```sql
   obclient> REVOKE SELECT, INSERT ON *.* FROM 'test';
   ```

* Revoke database-level privileges

   To revoke the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on all tables in the `db1` database from the `test` user, execute the following statement:

   ```sql
   obclient> REVOKE SELECT, INSERT ON db1 FROM 'test';
   ```

* Revoke table-level privileges

   To revoke the `INSERT` and `SELECT` privileges on the `tb1_name` table in the `db1` database from the `test` user, execute the following statement:

   ```sql
   obclient> REVOKE SELECT, INSERT ON db1.tb1_name FROM 'test';
   ```

For more information about the `REVOKE` statement, see [REVOKE](../../../../../4.development-reference/1.sql-syntax/2.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/6.sql-statement-of-mysql-mode/77.revoke-of-mysql-mode.md).
