# ob_admin overview

ob_admin is an O&M tool for OceanBase Database. This topic describes the installation procedure and features of ob_admin. 

## Installation procedure

### Install ob_admin by using YUM commands

You can use YUM commands to directly install OceanBase Utils and then use ob_admin. 

1. Install OceanBase Utils by using YUM commands. 

   ```shell
   yum-config-manager --add-repo https://mirrors.aliyun.com/oceanbase/OceanBase.repo
   yum install oceanbase-ce-utils
   ```

2. After the installation is completed, you can use the features of ob_admin. 

   To view the help description of dumpsst, run the following command:

   ```shell
   ob_admin dumpsst -h
   ```

### Install ob_admin by using the ob_utils installation package

You can install OceanBase Utils and then use ob_admin. 

1. Search for `OceanBase Utils` in the [OceanBase Software Center](https://www.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter) and then download the required version to your local server. 

2. Run the following command in the file directory to install OceanBase Utils. 

   ```shell
   rpm -ivh  oceanbase-ce-utils-<version>
   ```

   If you only need `ob_admin`, run the `rpm2cpio` command to obtain `ob_admin`. 

   ```bash
   rpm2cpio oceanbase-ce-utils-<version> | cpio -idmv ./usr/bin/ob_admin
   cp usr/bin/ob_admin /usr/local/bin
   ```

3. After the installation is completed, you can use the features of ob_admin. 

   To view the help description of dumpsst, run the following command:

   ```shell
   ob_admin dumpsst -h
   ```

### Build ob_admin by compiling the source code

You can compile the source code of OceanBase Database to build ob_error. 

1. Clone the open source code of [OceanBase Database](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase) to your local server. 

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase
   ```


2. Compile ob_admin in the following modes: 

   * Debug mode

      ```shell
      bash build.sh debug --init
      cd build_debug
      make ob_admin
      cp tools/ob_admin/src/ob_admin /usr/local/bin
      ```

      By default, after you compile `ob_admin`, you can find the compiled files in the `DEBUG_BUILD_DIR/tools/ob_admin/src/ob_admin` directory. `DEBUG_BUILD_DIR` indicates the compilation directory, which is `build_debug` in this example. 

   * Release mode

      ```shell
      bash build.sh release --init
      cd build_release
      make ob_admin
      cp tools/ob_admin/src/ob_admin /usr/local/bin
      ```

      By default, after you compile `ob_admin`, you can find the compiled files in the `RELEASE_BUILD_DIR/tools/ob_admin/src/ob_admin` directory. `RELEASE_BUILD_DIRR` indicates the compilation directory, which is `build_release` in this example. 

3. After the installation is completed, you can use the features of ob_admin. 

   To view the help description of dumpsst, run the following command:

   ```shell
   ob_admin dumpsst -h
   ```

### General issues

If the `libmariadb.so.3` dynamic library is missing when you use ob_admin, perform the following steps to resolve the issue. 

1. Example of an issue: 

   ```shell
   $ ob_admin dumpsst -h
   Error while loading shared libraries: libcrypto. so.10: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory.
   ```

2. The `libmariadb.so.3` dynamic library is built in OceanBase Database. You can use the `find` command to find its path. 

   In this example, the installation path of OceanBase Database is `/home/admin/observer`. 

   ```shell
   $ find / -name libmariadb.so.3
   /home/admin/observer/lib/libmariadb.so.3
   ```

3. Set the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` environment variable to specify the dynamic library search path. 

   ```shell
   $ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/admin/observer/lib
   ```

4. Now you can use the features of ob_admin. 

   ```shell
   $ ob_admin dumpsst -h
   ```

## Features

ob_admin provides the slog_tool, log_tool, dumpsst, and dump_backup features to troubleshoot issues such as data inconsistency, data loss, and data errors. The following sections describe these features respectively. 

### slog_tool

slog_tool displays the content of slog files. Syntax:

```bash
$./ob_admin slog_tool -f ../store/slog/1
```

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The path in the slog_tool command must begin with a period (.) or slash (/). </p>
  </main>

### log_tool

You can use log_tool to perform the following operations:

* Provide content of the `dump clog` files. 
* Measure the proportion of each module in the clog files. 
* Search for logs by a specified field. 

For more information, see [clog_tool](300.clog/300.clog-tool.md). 

### dumpsst

dumpsst displays the content in `block_file`, such as superblocks, macroblocks, macroblock meta, SSTables, and SSTable meta. Generally, you can use it to trace online issues and locate data issues. For more information, see [dumpsst](../800.ob-admin/500.dumpsst.md). 

### dump_backup

dump_backup parses the data content for physical backup. For more information, see [dump_backup](../800.ob-admin/600.dump-backup.md). 

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>ob_admin specifies the log printing level by using the <code>OB_ADMIN_LOG_LEVEL</code> environment variable, which can be set to DEBUG, TRACE, INFO, WARNING, or ERROR. </p>
  </main>
